The Project Gutenberg eBook of Moby Dick; Or, The Whale
    
    This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
    most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
    you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
    before using this eBook.

    Title: Moby Dick; Or, The Whale

    Author: Herman Melville

    Release date: July 1, 2001 [eBook #2701]
                    Most recently updated: January 19, 2025

		    Language: English

		    Credits: Daniel Lazarus, Jonesey, and David Widger


		    *** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR, THE WHALE ***




		    MOBY-DICK;

		    or, THE WHALE.

		    By Herman Melville



		    CONTENTS

		    ETYMOLOGY.

		    EXTRACTS (Supplied by a Sub-Sub-Librarian).

		    CHAPTER 1. Loomings.

		    CHAPTER 2. The Carpet-Bag.

		    CHAPTER 3. The Spouter-Inn.

		    CHAPTER 4. The Counterpane.

		    CHAPTER 5. Breakfast.

		    CHAPTER 6. The Street.

		    CHAPTER 7. The Chapel.

		    CHAPTER 8. The Pulpit.

		    CHAPTER 9. The Sermon.

		    CHAPTER 10. A Bosom Friend.

		    CHAPTER 11. Nightgown.

		    CHAPTER 12. Biographical.

		    CHAPTER 13. Wheelbarrow.

		    CHAPTER 14. Nantucket.

		    CHAPTER 15. Chowder.

		    CHAPTER 16. The Ship.

		    CHAPTER 17. The Ramadan.

		    CHAPTER 18. His Mark.

		    CHAPTER 19. The Prophet.

		    CHAPTER 20. All Astir.

		    CHAPTER 21. Going Aboard.

		    CHAPTER 22. Merry Christmas.

		    CHAPTER 23. The Lee Shore.

		    CHAPTER 24. The Advocate.

		    CHAPTER 25. Postscript.

		    CHAPTER 26. Knights and Squires.

		    CHAPTER 27. Knights and Squires.

		    CHAPTER 28. Ahab.

		    CHAPTER 29. Enter Ahab; to Him, Stubb.

		    CHAPTER 30. The Pipe.

		    CHAPTER 31. Queen Mab.

		    CHAPTER 32. Cetology.

		    CHAPTER 33. The Specksnyder.

		    CHAPTER 34. The Cabin-Table.

		    CHAPTER 35. The Mast-Head.

		    CHAPTER 36. The Quarter-Deck.

		    CHAPTER 37. Sunset.

		    CHAPTER 38. Dusk.

		    CHAPTER 39. First Night-Watch.

		    CHAPTER 40. Midnight, Forecastle.

		    CHAPTER 41. Moby Dick.

		    CHAPTER 42. The Whiteness of the Whale.

		    CHAPTER 43. Hark!

		    CHAPTER 44. The Chart.

		    CHAPTER 45. The Affidavit.

		    CHAPTER 46. Surmises.

		    CHAPTER 47. The Mat-Maker.

		    CHAPTER 48. The First Lowering.

		    CHAPTER 49. The Hyena.

		    CHAPTER 50. Ahab’s Boat and Crew. Fedallah.

		    CHAPTER 51. The Spirit-Spout.

		    CHAPTER 52. The Albatross.

		    CHAPTER 53. The Gam.

		    CHAPTER 54. The Town-Ho’s Story.

		    CHAPTER 55. Of the Monstrous Pictures of Whales.

		    CHAPTER 56. Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the True
		    Pictures of Whaling Scenes.

		    CHAPTER 57. Of Whales in Paint; in Teeth; in Wood; in Sheet-Iron; in
		    Stone; in Mountains; in Stars.

		    CHAPTER 58. Brit.

		    CHAPTER 59. Squid.

		    CHAPTER 60. The Line.

		    CHAPTER 61. Stubb Kills a Whale.

		    CHAPTER 62. The Dart.

		    CHAPTER 63. The Crotch.

		    CHAPTER 64. Stubb’s Supper.

		    CHAPTER 65. The Whale as a Dish.

		    CHAPTER 66. The Shark Massacre.

		    CHAPTER 67. Cutting In.

		    CHAPTER 68. The Blanket.

		    CHAPTER 69. The Funeral.

		    CHAPTER 70. The Sphynx.

		    CHAPTER 71. The Jeroboam’s Story.

		    CHAPTER 72. The Monkey-Rope.

		    CHAPTER 73. Stubb and Flask kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talk
		    over Him.

		    CHAPTER 74. The Sperm Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.

		    CHAPTER 75. The Right Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.

		    CHAPTER 76. The Battering-Ram.

		    CHAPTER 77. The Great Heidelburgh Tun.

		    CHAPTER 78. Cistern and Buckets.

		    CHAPTER 79. The Prairie.

		    CHAPTER 80. The Nut.

		    CHAPTER 81. The Pequod Meets The Virgin.

		    CHAPTER 82. The Honor and Glory of Whaling.

		    CHAPTER 83. Jonah Historically Regarded.

		    CHAPTER 84. Pitchpoling.

		    CHAPTER 85. The Fountain.

		    CHAPTER 86. The Tail.

		    CHAPTER 87. The Grand Armada.

		    CHAPTER 88. Schools and Schoolmasters.

		    CHAPTER 89. Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish.

		    CHAPTER 90. Heads or Tails.

		    CHAPTER 91. The Pequod Meets The Rose-Bud.

		    CHAPTER 92. Ambergris.

		    CHAPTER 93. The Castaway.

		    CHAPTER 94. A Squeeze of the Hand.

		    CHAPTER 95. The Cassock.

		    CHAPTER 96. The Try-Works.

		    CHAPTER 97. The Lamp.

		    CHAPTER 98. Stowing Down and Clearing Up.

		    CHAPTER 99. The Doubloon.

		    CHAPTER 100. Leg and Arm.

		    CHAPTER 101. The Decanter.

		    CHAPTER 102. A Bower in the Arsacides.

		    CHAPTER 103. Measurement of The Whale’s Skeleton.

		    CHAPTER 104. The Fossil Whale.

		    CHAPTER 105. Does the Whale’s Magnitude Diminish?—Will He Perish?

		    CHAPTER 106. Ahab’s Leg.

		    CHAPTER 107. The Carpenter.

		    CHAPTER 108. Ahab and the Carpenter.

		    CHAPTER 109. Ahab and Starbuck in the Cabin.

		    CHAPTER 110. Queequeg in His Coffin.

		    CHAPTER 111. The Pacific.

		    CHAPTER 112. The Blacksmith.

		    CHAPTER 113. The Forge.

		    CHAPTER 114. The Gilder.

		    CHAPTER 115. The Pequod Meets The Bachelor.

		    CHAPTER 116. The Dying Whale.

		    CHAPTER 117. The Whale Watch.

		    CHAPTER 118. The Quadrant.

		    CHAPTER 119. The Candles.

		    CHAPTER 120. The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch.

		    CHAPTER 121. Midnight.—The Forecastle Bulwarks.

		    CHAPTER 122. Midnight Aloft.—Thunder and Lightning.

		    CHAPTER 123. The Musket.

		    CHAPTER 124. The Needle.

		    CHAPTER 125. The Log and Line.

		    CHAPTER 126. The Life-Buoy.

		    CHAPTER 127. The Deck.

		    CHAPTER 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel.

		    CHAPTER 129. The Cabin.

		    CHAPTER 130. The Hat.

		    CHAPTER 131. The Pequod Meets The Delight.

		    CHAPTER 132. The Symphony.

		    CHAPTER 133. The Chase—First Day.

		    CHAPTER 134. The Chase—Second Day.

		    CHAPTER 135. The Chase.—Third Day.

		    Epilogue




		    Original Transcriber’s Notes:





		    This text is a combination of etexts, one from the now-defunct ERIS
		    project at Virginia Tech and one from Project Gutenberg’s archives. The
		    proofreaders of this version are indebted to The University of Adelaide
		    Library for preserving the Virginia Tech version. The resulting etext
		    was compared with a public domain hard copy version of the text.





		      ETYMOLOGY.


		        (Supplied by a Late Consumptive Usher to a Grammar School.)

			  The pale Usher—threadbare in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him
			    now. He was ever dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer
			      handkerchief, mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all the
			        known nations of the world. He loved to dust his old grammars; it
				  somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.

				    “While you take in hand to school others, and to teach them by what
				      name a whale-fish is to be called in our tongue, leaving out, through
				        ignorance, the letter H, which almost alone maketh up the
					  signification of the word, you deliver that which is not true.”
					    —_Hackluyt._

					      “WHALE. * * * Sw. and Dan. _hval_. This animal is named from
					        roundness or rolling; for in Dan. _hvalt_ is arched or vaulted.”
						  —_Webster’s Dictionary._

						    “WHALE. * * * It is more immediately from the Dut. and Ger. _Wallen_;
						      A.S. _Walw-ian_, to roll, to wallow.” —_Richardson’s Dictionary._


						        חו,                 _Hebrew_.
							  ϰητος,              _Greek_.
							    CETUS,              _Latin_.
							      WHŒL,               _Anglo-Saxon_.
							        HVALT,              _Danish_.
								  WAL,                _Dutch_.
								    HWAL,               _Swedish_.
								      WHALE,              _Icelandic_.
								        WHALE,              _English_.
									  BALLENA,            _Spanish_.
									    PEKEE-NUEE-NUEE,    _Fegee_.
									      PEHEE-NUEE-NUEE,    _Erromangoan_.



									        EXTRACTS. (Supplied by a Sub-Sub-Librarian).



										  It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grub-worm of
										    a poor devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long
										      Vaticans and street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random
										        allusions to whales he could anyways find in any book whatsoever,
											  sacred or profane. Therefore you must not, in every case at least,
											    take the higgledy-piggledy whale statements, however authentic, in
											      these extracts, for veritable gospel cetology. Far from it. As
											        touching the ancient authors generally, as well as the poets here
												  appearing, these extracts are solely valuable or entertaining, as
												    affording a glancing bird’s eye view of what has been promiscuously
												      said, thought, fancied, and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and
												        generations, including our own.

													  So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am.
													    Thou belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this
													      world will ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too
													        rosy-strong; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel
														  poor-devilish, too; and grow convivial upon tears; and say to them
														    bluntly, with full eyes and empty glasses, and in not altogether
														      unpleasant sadness—Give it up, Sub-Subs! For by how much the more
														        pains ye take to please the world, by so much the more shall ye for
															  ever go thankless! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the
															    Tuileries for ye! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the
															      royal-mast with your hearts; for your friends who have gone before
															        are clearing out the seven-storied heavens, and making refugees of
																  long-pampered Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against your coming.
																    Here ye strike but splintered hearts together—there, ye shall strike
																      unsplinterable glasses!

																      EXTRACTS.

																        “And God created great whales.” —_Genesis_.

																	  “Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him; One would think the deep
																	    to be hoary.” —_Job_.

																	      “Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.”
																	        —_Jonah_.

																		  “There go the ships; there is that Leviathan whom thou hast made to
																		    play therein.” —_Psalms_.

																		      “In that day, the Lord with his sore, and great, and strong sword,
																		        shall punish Leviathan the piercing serpent, even Leviathan that
																			  crooked serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea.”
																			    —_Isaiah_.

																			      “And what thing soever besides cometh within the chaos of this
																			        monster’s mouth, be it beast, boat, or stone, down it goes all
																				  incontinently that foul great swallow of his, and perisheth in the
																				    bottomless gulf of his paunch.” —_Holland’s Plutarch’s Morals_.

																				      “The Indian Sea breedeth the most and the biggest fishes that are:
																				        among which the Whales and Whirlpooles called Balaene, take up as
																					  much in length as four acres or arpens of land.” —_Holland’s Pliny_.

																					    “Scarcely had we proceeded two days on the sea, when about sunrise a
																					      great many Whales and other monsters of the sea, appeared. Among the
																					        former, one was of a most monstrous size.... This came towards us,
																						  open-mouthed, raising the waves on all sides, and beating the sea
																						    before him into a foam.” —_Tooke’s Lucian_. “_The True History_.”




																						      “He visited this country also with a view of catching horse-whales,
																						        which had bones of very great value for their teeth, of which he
																							  brought some to the king.... The best whales were catched in his own
																							    country, of which some were forty-eight, some fifty yards long. He
																							      said that he was one of six who had killed sixty in two days.”
																							        —_Other or Other’s verbal narrative taken down from his mouth by King
																								  Alfred, A.D._ 890.

																								    “And whereas all the other things, whether beast or vessel, that
																								      enter into the dreadful gulf of this monster’s (whale’s) mouth, are
																								        immediately lost and swallowed up, the sea-gudgeon retires into it in
																									  great security, and there sleeps.” —MONTAIGNE. —_Apology for Raimond
																									    Sebond_.

																									      “Let us fly, let us fly! Old Nick take me if it is not Leviathan
																									        described by the noble prophet Moses in the life of patient Job.”
																										  —_Rabelais_.

																										    “This whale’s liver was two cartloads.” —_Stowe’s Annals_.

																										      “The great Leviathan that maketh the seas to seethe like boiling
																										        pan.” —_Lord Bacon’s Version of the Psalms_.

																											  “Touching that monstrous bulk of the whale or ork we have received
																											    nothing certain. They grow exceeding fat, insomuch that an incredible
																											      quantity of oil will be extracted out of one whale.” —_Ibid_.
																											        “_History of Life and Death_.”




																												  “The sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruise.”
																												    —_King Henry_.

																												      “Very like a whale.” —_Hamlet_.


																												        “Which to secure, no skill of leach’s art Mote him availle, but to
																													  returne againe To his wound’s worker, that with lowly dart, Dinting
																													    his breast, had bred his restless paine, Like as the wounded whale to
																													      shore flies thro’ the maine.” —_The Fairie Queen_.



																													        “Immense as whales, the motion of whose vast bodies can in a peaceful
																														  calm trouble the ocean till it boil.” —_Sir William Davenant. Preface
																														    to Gondibert_.

																														      “What spermacetti is, men might justly doubt, since the learned
																														        Hosmannus in his work of thirty years, saith plainly, _Nescio quid
																															  sit_.” —_Sir T. Browne. Of Sperma Ceti and the Sperma Ceti Whale.
																															    Vide his V. E._


																															      “Like Spencer’s Talus with his modern flail He threatens ruin with
																															        his ponderous tail. ... Their fixed jav’lins in his side he wears,
																																  And on his back a grove of pikes appears.” —_Waller’s Battle of the
																																    Summer Islands_.



																																      “By art is created that great Leviathan, called a Commonwealth or
																																        State—(in Latin, Civitas) which is but an artificial man.” —_Opening
																																	  sentence of Hobbes’s Leviathan_.

																																	    “Silly Mansoul swallowed it without chewing, as if it had been a
																																	      sprat in the mouth of a whale.” —_Pilgrim’s Progress_.


																																	        “That sea beast Leviathan, which God of all his works Created hugest
																																		  that swim the ocean stream.” —_Paradise Lost_.

																																		    —“There Leviathan, Hugest of living creatures, in the deep Stretched
																																		      like a promontory sleeps or swims, And seems a moving land; and at
																																		        his gills Draws in, and at his breath spouts out a sea.” —_Ibid_.



																																			  “The mighty whales which swim in a sea of water, and have a sea of
																																			    oil swimming in them.” —_Fuller’s Profane and Holy State_.


																																			      “So close behind some promontory lie The huge Leviathan to attend
																																			        their prey, And give no chance, but swallow in the fry, Which through
																																				  their gaping jaws mistake the way.” —_Dryden’s Annus Mirabilis_.



																																				    “While the whale is floating at the stern of the ship, they cut off
																																				      his head, and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come;
																																				        but it will be aground in twelve or thirteen feet water.” —_Thomas
																																					  Edge’s Ten Voyages to Spitzbergen, in Purchas_.

																																					    “In their way they saw many whales sporting in the ocean, and in
																																					      wantonness fuzzing up the water through their pipes and vents, which
																																					        nature has placed on their shoulders.” —_Sir T. Herbert’s Voyages
																																						  into Asia and Africa. Harris Coll_.

																																						    “Here they saw such huge troops of whales, that they were forced to
																																						      proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their
																																						        ship upon them.” —_Schouten’s Sixth Circumnavigation_.

																																							  “We set sail from the Elbe, wind N.E. in the ship called The
																																							    Jonas-in-the-Whale.... Some say the whale can’t open his mouth, but
																																							      that is a fable.... They frequently climb up the masts to see whether
																																							        they can see a whale, for the first discoverer has a ducat for his
																																								  pains.... I was told of a whale taken near Shetland, that had above a
																																								    barrel of herrings in his belly.... One of our harpooneers told me
																																								      that he caught once a whale in Spitzbergen that was white all over.”
																																								        —_A Voyage to Greenland, A.D._ 1671. _Harris Coll_.

																																									  “Several whales have come in upon this coast (Fife) Anno 1652, one
																																									    eighty feet in length of the whale-bone kind came in, which (as I was
																																									      informed), besides a vast quantity of oil, did afford 500 weight of
																																									        baleen. The jaws of it stand for a gate in the garden of Pitferren.”
																																										  —_Sibbald’s Fife and Kinross_.

																																										    “Myself have agreed to try whether I can master and kill this
																																										      Sperma-ceti whale, for I could never hear of any of that sort that
																																										        was killed by any man, such is his fierceness and swiftness.”
																																											  —_Richard Strafford’s Letter from the Bermudas. Phil. Trans. A.D._
																																											    1668.

																																											      “Whales in the sea God’s voice obey.” —_N. E. Primer_.

																																											        “We saw also abundance of large whales, there being more in those
																																												  southern seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one; than we have to the
																																												    northward of us.” —_Captain Cowley’s Voyage round the Globe, A.D._
																																												      1729.

																																												        “... and the breath of the whale is frequently attended with such an
																																													  insupportable smell, as to bring on a disorder of the brain.”
																																													    —_Ulloa’s South America_.


																																													      “To fifty chosen sylphs of special note, We trust the important
																																													        charge, the petticoat. Oft have we known that seven-fold fence to
																																														  fail, Tho’ stuffed with hoops and armed with ribs of whale.” —_Rape
																																														    of the Lock_.



																																														      “If we compare land animals in respect to magnitude, with those that
																																														        take up their abode in the deep, we shall find they will appear
																																															  contemptible in the comparison. The whale is doubtless the largest
																																															    animal in creation.” —_Goldsmith, Nat. Hist_.

																																															      “If you should write a fable for little fishes, you would make them
																																															        speak like great whales.” —_Goldsmith to Johnson_.

																																																  “In the afternoon we saw what was supposed to be a rock, but it was
																																																    found to be a dead whale, which some Asiatics had killed, and were
																																																      then towing ashore. They seemed to endeavor to conceal themselves
																																																        behind the whale, in order to avoid being seen by us.” —_Cook’s
																																																	  Voyages_.

																																																	    “The larger whales, they seldom venture to attack. They stand in so
																																																	      great dread of some of them, that when out at sea they are afraid to
																																																	        mention even their names, and carry dung, lime-stone, juniper-wood,
																																																		  and some other articles of the same nature in their boats, in order
																																																		    to terrify and prevent their too near approach.” —_Uno Von Troil’s
																																																		      Letters on Banks’s and Solander’s Voyage to Iceland in_ 1772.

																																																		        “The Spermacetti Whale found by the Nantuckois, is an active, fierce
																																																			  animal, and requires vast address and boldness in the fishermen.”
																																																			    —_Thomas Jefferson’s Whale Memorial to the French minister in_ 1778.

																																																			      “And pray, sir, what in the world is equal to it?” —_Edmund Burke’s
																																																			        reference in Parliament to the Nantucket Whale-Fishery_.

																																																				  “Spain—a great whale stranded on the shores of Europe.” —_Edmund
																																																				    Burke_. (_somewhere_.)

																																																				      “A tenth branch of the king’s ordinary revenue, said to be grounded
																																																				        on the consideration of his guarding and protecting the seas from
																																																					  pirates and robbers, is the right to _royal_ fish, which are whale
																																																					    and sturgeon. And these, when either thrown ashore or caught near the
																																																					      coast, are the property of the king.” —_Blackstone_.


																																																					        “Soon to the sport of death the crews repair: Rodmond unerring o’er
																																																						  his head suspends The barbed steel, and every turn attends.”
																																																						    —_Falconer’s Shipwreck_.

																																																						      “Bright shone the roofs, the domes, the spires, And rockets blew self
																																																						        driven, To hang their momentary fire Around the vault of heaven.

																																																							  “So fire with water to compare, The ocean serves on high, Up-spouted
																																																							    by a whale in air, To express unwieldy joy.” —_Cowper, on the Queen’s
																																																							      Visit to London_.



																																																							        “Ten or fifteen gallons of blood are thrown out of the heart at a
																																																								  stroke, with immense velocity.” —_John Hunter’s account of the
																																																								    dissection of a whale_. (_A small sized one_.)

																																																								      “The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the
																																																								        water-works at London Bridge, and the water roaring in its passage
																																																									  through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood
																																																									    gushing from the whale’s heart.” —_Paley’s Theology_.

																																																									      “The whale is a mammiferous animal without hind feet.” —_Baron
																																																									        Cuvier_.

																																																										  “In 40 degrees south, we saw Spermacetti Whales, but did not take any
																																																										    till the first of May, the sea being then covered with them.”
																																																										      —_Colnett’s Voyage for the Purpose of Extending the Spermaceti Whale
																																																										        Fishery_.


																																																											  “In the free element beneath me swam, Floundered and dived, in play,
																																																											    in chace, in battle, Fishes of every colour, form, and kind; Which
																																																											      language cannot paint, and mariner Had never seen; from dread
																																																											        Leviathan To insect millions peopling every wave: Gather’d in shoals
																																																												  immense, like floating islands, Led by mysterious instincts through
																																																												    that waste And trackless region, though on every side Assaulted by
																																																												      voracious enemies, Whales, sharks, and monsters, arm’d in front or
																																																												        jaw, With swords, saws, spiral horns, or hooked fangs.”
																																																													  —_Montgomery’s World before the Flood_.

																																																													    “Io!  Paean!  Io! sing. To the finny people’s king. Not a mightier
																																																													      whale than this In the vast Atlantic is; Not a fatter fish than he,
																																																													        Flounders round the Polar Sea.” —_Charles Lamb’s Triumph of the
																																																														  Whale_.



																																																														    “In the year 1690 some persons were on a high hill observing the
																																																														      whales spouting and sporting with each other, when one observed:
																																																														        there—pointing to the sea—is a green pasture where our children’s
																																																															  grand-children will go for bread.” —_Obed Macy’s History of
																																																															    Nantucket_.

																																																															      “I built a cottage for Susan and myself and made a gateway in the
																																																															        form of a Gothic Arch, by setting up a whale’s jaw bones.”
																																																																  —_Hawthorne’s Twice Told Tales_.

																																																																    “She came to bespeak a monument for her first love, who had been
																																																																      killed by a whale in the Pacific ocean, no less than forty years
																																																																        ago.” —_Ibid_.

																																																																	  “No, Sir, ’tis a Right Whale,” answered Tom; “I saw his sprout; he
																																																																	    threw up a pair of as pretty rainbows as a Christian would wish to
																																																																	      look at. He’s a raal oil-butt, that fellow!” —_Cooper’s Pilot_.

																																																																	        “The papers were brought in, and we saw in the Berlin Gazette that
																																																																		  whales had been introduced on the stage there.” —_Eckermann’s
																																																																		    Conversations with Goethe_.

																																																																		      “My God! Mr. Chace, what is the matter?” I answered, “we have been
																																																																		        stove by a whale.” —“_Narrative of the Shipwreck of the Whale Ship
																																																																			  Essex of Nantucket, which was attacked and finally destroyed by a
																																																																			    large Sperm Whale in the Pacific Ocean_.” _By Owen Chace of
																																																																			      Nantucket, first mate of said vessel. New York_, 1821.


																																																																			        “A mariner sat in the shrouds one night, The wind was piping free;
																																																																				  Now bright, now dimmed, was the moonlight pale, And the phospher
																																																																				    gleamed in the wake of the whale, As it floundered in the sea.”
																																																																				      —_Elizabeth Oakes Smith_.



																																																																				        “The quantity of line withdrawn from the boats engaged in the capture
																																																																					  of this one whale, amounted altogether to 10,440 yards or nearly six
																																																																					    English miles....

																																																																					      “Sometimes the whale shakes its tremendous tail in the air, which,
																																																																					        cracking like a whip, resounds to the distance of three or four
																																																																						  miles.” —_Scoresby_.

																																																																						    “Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks, the
																																																																						      infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over; he rears his enormous
																																																																						        head, and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him; he
																																																																							  rushes at the boats with his head; they are propelled before him with
																																																																							    vast swiftness, and sometimes utterly destroyed.... It is a matter of
																																																																							      great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so
																																																																							        interesting, and, in a commercial point of view, so important an
																																																																								  animal (as the Sperm Whale) should have been so entirely neglected,
																																																																								    or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous, and
																																																																								      many of them competent observers, that of late years, must have
																																																																								        possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of
																																																																									  witnessing their habitudes.” —_Thomas Beale’s History of the Sperm
																																																																									    Whale_, 1839.

																																																																									      “The Cachalot” (Sperm Whale) “is not only better armed than the True
																																																																									        Whale” (Greenland or Right Whale) “in possessing a formidable weapon
																																																																										  at either extremity of its body, but also more frequently displays a
																																																																										    disposition to employ these weapons offensively and in manner at once
																																																																										      so artful, bold, and mischievous, as to lead to its being regarded as
																																																																										        the most dangerous to attack of ault for some time with a lance; but the furious monster at length
																																																																											  rushed on the boat; himself and comrades only being preserved by
																																																																											    leaping into the water when they saw the onset was inevitable.”
																																																																											      —_Missionary Journal of Tyerman and Bennett_.

																																																																											        “Nantucket itself,” said Mr. Webster, “is a very striking and
																																																																												  peculiar portion of the National interest. There is a population of
																																																																												    eight or nine thousand persons living here in the sea, adding largely
																																																																												      every year to the National wealth by the boldest and most persevering
																																																																												        industry.” —_Report of Daniel Webster’s Speech in the U. S. Senate,
																																																																													  on the application for the Erection of a Breakwater at Nantucket_.
																																																																													    1828.

																																																																													      “The whale fell directly over him, and probably killed him in a
																																																																													        moment.” —“_The Whale and his Captors, or The Whaleman’s Adventures
																																																																														  and the Whale’s Biography, gathered on the Homeward Cruise of the
																																																																														    Commodore Preble_.” _By Rev. Henry T. Cheever_.

																																																																														      “If you make the least damn bit of noise,” replied Samuel, “I will
																																																																														        send you to hell.” —_Life of Samuel Comstock_ (_the mutineer_), _by
																																																																															  his brother, William Comstock. Another Version of the whale-ship
																																																																															    Globe narrative_.

																																																																															      “The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in
																																																																															        order, if possible, to discover a passage through it to India, though
																																																																																  they failed of their main object, laid-open the haunts of the whale.”
																																																																																    —_McCulloch’s Commercial Dictionary_.

																																																																																      “These things are reciprocal; the ball rebounds, only to bound
																																																																																        forward again; for now in laying open the haunts of the whale, the
																																																																																	  whalemen seem to have indirectly hit upon new clews to that same
																																																																																	    mystic North-West Passage.” —_From_ “_Some. Some years ago—never mind how long precisely—having
																																																																																	    little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me
																																																																																	    on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part
																																																																																	    of the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and
																																																																																	    regulating the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about
																																																																																	    the mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever
																																																																																	    I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and
																																																																																	    bringing up the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever
																																																																																	    my hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral
																																																																																	    principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and
																																																																																	    methodically knocking people’s hats off—then, I account it high time to
																																																																																	    get to sea as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball.
																																																																																	    With a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I
																																																																																	    quietly take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If they
																																																																																	    but knew it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other,
																																																																																	    cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me.

																																																																																	    There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by
																																																																																	    wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs—commerce surrounds it with her
																																																																																	    surf. Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extreme
																																																																																	    downtown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and
																																																																																	    cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of
																																																																																	    land. Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.

																																																																																	    Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears
																																																																																	    Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What
																																																																																	    do you see?—Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand
																																																																																	    thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some
																																																																																	    leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some
																																																																																	    looking over the bulwarks of ships froefore him. Go visit the Prairies in June,
																																																																																	    when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among
																																																																																	    Tiger-lilies—what is the one charm wanting?—Water—there is not a drop
																																																																																	    of water there! Were Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel
																																																																																	    your thousand miles to see it? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon
																																																																																	    suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy
																																																																																	    him a coat, which he sadly needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian
																																																																																	    trip to Rockaway Beach? Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a
																																																																																	    robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other crazy to go to sea?
																																																																																	    Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you yourself feel such a
																																																																																	    mystical vibration, when first told that you and your ship were now out
																																																																																	    of sight of land? Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy? Why did
																																																																																	    the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove? Surely
																																																																																	    all this is not without meaning. And still deeper the meaning of that
																																																																																	    story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild
																																																																																	    image he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned. But that
																																																																																	    same image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans. It is the image
																																																																																	    of the ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all.

																																																																																	    Now, when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin
																																																																																	    to grow hazy about the eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my
																																																																																	    lungs, I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to sea as a
																																																																																	    passenger. For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a
																																																																																	    purse is but a rag unless you have something in it. Besin much the same way—either in a physical or
																																																																																	    metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is
																																																																																	    passed round, and all hands should rub each other’s shoulder-blades,
																																																																																	    and be content.

																																																																																	    Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of
																																																																																	    paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single
																																																																																	    penny that I ever heard of. On the contrary, passengers themselves must
																																																																																	    pay. And there is all the difference in the world between paying and
																																																																																	    being paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable
																																																																																	    infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us. But _being
																																																																																	    paid_,—what will compare with it? The urbane activity with which a man
																																																																																	    receives money is really marvellous, considering that we so earnestly
																																																																																	    believe money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on no
																																																																																	    account can a monied man enter heaven. Ah! how cheerfully we consign
																																																																																	    ourselves to perdition!

																																																																																	    Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome
																																																																																	    exercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For as in this world,
																																																																																	    head winds are far more prevalent than winds from astern (that is, if
																																																																																	    you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the
																																																																																	    Commoder my
																																																																																	    arm, and started for Cape Horn and the Pacific. Quitting the good city
																																																																																	    of old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New Bedford. It was a Saturday night
																																																																																	    in December. Much was I disappointed upon learning that the little
																																																																																	    packet for Nantucket had already sailed, and that no way of reaching
																																																																																	    that place would offer, till the following Monday.

																																																																																	    As most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling stop at
																																																																																	    this same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as well
																																																																																	    be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing. For my mind was
																																																																																	    made up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a
																																																																																	    fine, boisterous something about everything connected with that famous
																																																																																	    old island, which amazingly pleased me. Besides though New Bedford has
																																																																																	    of late been gradually monopolising the business of whaling, and though
																																																																																	    in this matter poor old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket
																																																																																	    was her great original—the Tyre of this Carthage;—the place where the
																																																																																	    first dead American whale was stranded. Where else but from Nantucket
																																																																																	    did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes
																																																																																	    to give chase to the Leviathan? And where but from Nantucket, too, did
																																																																																	    that first adventurous little sloop put forth, partly laden with
																																																																																	    imported cobblestones—so goes the story—to throw at the whales, in
																																																																																	    order to discover when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the
																																																																																	    bowsprit?

																																																																																	    Now having a night, a day, and still another night following before me
																																																																																	    in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port, it became a
																																																																																	    matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile. It was a
																																																																																	    very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold
																																																																																	    and cheerless. I knew no one in the place. With anxious grapnels I had
																																																																																	    sounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver,—So,
																																																																																	    wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of
																																																																																	    a dreary street shouldering my bag, s to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of
																																																																																	    Doom was beating a book in a pulpit. It was a negro church; and the
																																																																																	    preacher’s text was about the blackness of darkness, and the weeping
																																																																																	    and wailing and teeth-gnashing there. Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing
																																																																																	    out, Wretched entertainment at the sign of ‘The Trap!’

																																																																																	    Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the
																																																																																	    docks, and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up, saw a
																																																																																	    swinging sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly
																																																																																	    representing a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words
																																																																																	    underneath—“The Spouter Inn:—Peter Coffin.”

																																																																																	    Coffin?—Spouter?—Rather ominous in that particular connexion, thought
																																																																																	    I. But it is a common name in Nantucket, they say, and I suppose this
																																																																																	    Peter here is an emigrant from there. As the light looked so dim, and
																																																																																	    the place, for the time, looked quiet enough, and the dilapidated
																																																																																	    little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here
																																																																																	    from the ruins of some burnt district, and as the swinging sign had a
																																																																																	    poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here was the very
																																																																																	    spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.

																																																																																	    It was a queer sort of place—a gable-ended old house, one side palsied
																																																																																	    as it were, and leaning over sadly. It stood on a sharp bleak corner,
																																																																																	    where that tempestuous wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than
																																																																																	    ever it did about poor Paul’s tossed craft. Euroclydon, nevertheless,
																																																																																	    is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in-doors, with his feet on the
																																																																																	    hob quietly toasting fo that in the
																																																																																	    unequal crosslights by which you viewed it, it was only by diligent
																																																																																	    study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful inquiry of
																																																																																	    the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its
																																																																																	    purpose. Such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at first
																																																																																	    you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New
																																																																																	    England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched. But by dint
																																																																																	    of much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and
																																																																																	    especially by throwing open the little window towards the back of the
																																																																																	    entry, you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea, however
																																																																																	    wild, might not be altogether unwarranted.

																																																																																	    But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long, limber,
																																																																																	    portentous, black mass of something hovering in the centre of the
																																																																																	    picture over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a
																																																																																	    nameless yeast. A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive
																																																																																	    a nervous man distracted. Yet was there a sort of indefinite,
																																																																																	    half-attained, unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to
																																																																																	    it, till you involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what
																																																																																	    that marvellous painting meant. Ever and anon a bright, but, alas,
																																																																																	    deceptive idea would dart you through.—It’s the Black Sea in a midnight
																																																																																	    gale.—It’s the unnatural combat of the four primal elements.—It’s a
																																																																																	    blasted heath.—It’s a Hyperborean winter scene.—It it. Within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old
																																																																																	    decanters, bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction,
																																																																																	    like another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him),
																																																																																	    bustles a little withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells
																																																																																	    the sailors deliriums and death.

																																																																																	    Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison. Though true
																																																																																	    cylinders without—within, the villanous green goggling glasses
																																																																																	    deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom. Parallel meridians
																																																																																	    rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads’ goblets. Fill to
																																																																																	    _this_ mark, and your charge is but a penny; to _this_ a penny more;
																																																																																	    and so on to the full glass—the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp
																																																																																	    down for a shilling.

																																																																																	    Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen gathered about
																																																																																	    a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of _skrimshander_. I
																																																																																	    sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be accommodated with
																																																																																	    a room, received for answer that his house was full—not a bed
																																																																																	    unoccupied. “But avast,” he added, tapping his forehead, “you haint no
																																																																																	    objections to sharing a harpooneer’s blanket, have ye? I s’pose you are
																																																																																	    goin’ a-whalin’, so you’d better get used to that sort of thing.”

																																																																																	    I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should
																																																																																	    ever do so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and that
																																																																																	    if he (the landlord) really had no other place for me, and the
																																																																																	    harpooneer was not decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander
																																																																																	    further about a strange town on so bitter a night, I would put up with
																																																																																	    the half of any decent man’s blanket.

																																																																																	    “I thought so. All right; take a seat. Supper?—you want supper?
																																																																																	    Supper’ll be ready directly.”

																																																																																	    I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like a beed from
																																																																																	    their boat, and this was the first house they entered. No wonder, then,
																																																																																	    that they made a straight wake for the whale’s mouth—the bar—when the
																																																																																	    wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon poured them out
																																																																																	    brimmers all round. One complained of a bad cold in his head, upon
																																																																																	    which Jonah mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which he
																																																																																	    swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never
																																																																																	    mind of how long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador,
																																																																																	    or on the weather side of an ice-island.

																																																																																	    The liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it generally does even
																																																																																	    with the arrantest topers newly landed from sea, and they began
																																																																																	    capering about most obstreperously.

																																																																																	    I observed, however, that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though
																																																																																	    he seemed desirous not to spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his
																																																																																	    own sober face, yet upon the whole he refrained from making as much
																																																																																	    noise as the rest. This man interested me at once; and since the
																																																																																	    sea-gods had ordained that he should soon become my shipmate (though
																																																																																	    but a sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is concerned), I
																																																																																	    will here venture upon a little description of him. He stood full six
																																																																																	    feet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam. I
																																																																																	    have seldom seen such brawn in a man. His face was deeply brown and
																																																																																	    burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in the
																																																																																	    deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem
																																																																																	    to give him much joy. His voice at once announced that he was a
																																																																																	    Southerner, and from his finemp against an indestructible knot. The landlord was
																																																																																	    near spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven’s sake to quit—the
																																																																																	    bed was soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing
																																																																																	    in the world could make eider down of a pine plank. So gathering up the
																																																																																	    shavings with another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in
																																																																																	    the middle of the room, he went about his business, and left me in a
																																																																																	    brown study.

																																																																																	    I now took the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too
																																																																																	    short; but that could be mended with a chair. But it was a foot too
																																																																																	    narrow, and the other bench in the room was about four inches higher
																																																																																	    than the planed one—so there was no yoking them. I then placed the
																																																																																	    first bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall,
																																																																																	    leaving a little interval between, for my back to settle down in. But I
																																																																																	    soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from
																																																																																	    under the sill of the window, that this plan would never do at all,
																																																																																	    especially as another current from the rickety door met the one from
																																																																																	    the window, and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in
																																																																																	    the immediate vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the
																																																																																	    night.

																																																																																	    The devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn’t I steal
																																																																																	    a march on him—bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be
																																																																																	    wakened by the most violent knockings? It seemed no bad idea; but upon
																																																																																	    second thoughts I dismissed it. Fornd about this harpooneer, whom I have
																																																																																	    not yet seen, you persist in telling me the most mystifying and
																																																																																	    exasperating stories tending to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling
																																																																																	    towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow—a sort of connexion,
																																																																																	    landlord, which is an intimate and confidential one in the highest
																																																																																	    degree. I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this
																																																																																	    harpooneer is, and whether I shall be in all respects safe to spend the
																																																																																	    night with him. And in the first place, you will be so good as to unsay
																																																																																	    that story about selling his head, which if true I take to be good
																																																																																	    evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I’ve no idea of
																																																																																	    sleeping with a madman; and you, sir, _you_ I mean, landlord, _you_,
																																																																																	    sir, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render
																																																																																	    yourself liable to a criminal prosecution.”

																																																																																	    “Wall,” said the landlord, fetching a long breath, “that’s a purty long
																																																																																	    sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and then. But be easy, be
																																																																																	    easy, this here harpooneer I have been tellin’ you of has just arrived
																																																																																	    from the south seas, where he bought up a lot of ’balmed New Zealand
																																																																																	    heads (great curios, you know), and he’s sold all on ’em but one, and
																																																																																	    that one he’s trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow’s Sunday, and it
																																																																																	    would not do to be sellin’ human heads about the streets when folks is
																																																																																	    goin’ to churches. He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as
																																																																																	    he was goin’ out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for
																																																																																	    all the airth like a string of inions.âd held it close to the
																																																																																	    light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to
																																																																																	    arrive at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it. I can compare it
																																																																																	    to nothing but a large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little
																																																																																	    tinkling tags something like the stained porcupine quills round an
																																																																																	    Indian moccasin. There was a hole or slit in the middle of this mat, as
																																																																																	    you see the same in South American ponchos. But could it be possible
																																																																																	    that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade the
																																																																																	    streets of any Christian town in that sort of guise? I put it on, to
																																																																																	    try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being uncommonly shaggy
																																																																																	    and thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this mysterious
																																																																																	    harpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day. I went up in it to a bit
																																																																																	    of glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my
																																																																																	    life. I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink
																																																																																	    in the neck.

																																																																																	    I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about this
																																																																																	    head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat. After thinking some time on
																																																																																	    the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in
																																																																																	    the middle of the room thinking. I then took off my coat, and thought a
																																																																																	    little more in my shirt sleeves. But beginning to feel very cold now,
																																																																																	    half undressed as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about
																																																																																	    the harpooneer’s not coming home at all that night, it being so very
																																																																																	    late, I made d his bag, he commenced
																																																																																	    fumbling in it, and presently pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a
																																																																																	    seal-skin wallet with the hair on. Placing these on the old chest in
																																																																																	    the middle of the room, he then took the New Zealand head—a ghastly
																																																																																	    thing enough—and crammed it down into the bag. He now took off his
																																																																																	    hat—a new beaver hat—when I came nigh singing out with fresh surprise.
																																																																																	    There was no hair on his head—none to speak of at least—nothing but a
																																																																																	    small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead. His bald purplish head now
																																																																																	    looked for all the world like a mildewed skull. Had not the stranger
																																																																																	    stood between me and the door, I would have bolted out of it quicker
																																																																																	    than ever I bolted a dinner.

																																																																																	    Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the window, but
																																																																																	    it was the second floor back. I am no coward, but what to make of this
																																																																																	    head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.
																																																																																	    Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
																																																																																	    confounded about the stranger, I confess I was now as much afraid of
																																																																																	    him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at
																																																																																	    the dead of night. In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game
																																																																																	    enough just then to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer
																																																																																	    concerning what seemed inexplicable in him.

																																																																																	    Meanwhile, he continued thbout in
																																																																																	    the most unnatural manner. At last extinguishing the fire, he took the
																																																																																	    idol up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket
																																																																																	    as carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.

																																																																																	    All these queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeing
																																																																																	    him now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business
																																																																																	    operations, and jumping into bed with me, I thought it was high time,
																																																																																	    now or never, before the light was put out, to break the spell in which
																																																																																	    I had so long been bound.

																																																																																	    But the interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.
																																																																																	    Taking up his tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for
																																																																																	    an instant, and then holding it to the light, with his mouth at the
																																																																																	    handle, he puffed out great clouds of tobacco smoke. The next moment
																																																																																	    the light was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, tomahawk between
																																																																																	    his teeth, sprang into bed with me. I sang out, I could not help it
																																																																																	    now; and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment he began feeling me.

																																																																																	    Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away from him
																																																																																	    against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
																																																																																	    be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again. But his
																																																																																	    guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but is, I
																																																																																	    say, looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork
																																																																																	    quilt. Indeed, partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I
																																																																																	    could hardly tell it from the quilt, they so blended their hues
																																																																																	    together; and it was only by the sense of weight and pressure that I
																																																																																	    could tell that Queequeg was hugging me.

																																																																																	    My sensations were strange. Let me try to explain them. When I was a
																																																																																	    child, I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me;
																																																																																	    whether it was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle. The
																																																																																	    circumstance was this. I had been cutting up some caper or other—I
																																																																																	    think it was trying to crawl up the chimney, as I had seen a little
																																																																																	    sweep do a few days previous; and my stepmother who, somehow or other,
																																																																																	    was all the time whipping me, or sending me to bed supperless,—my
																																																																																	    mother dragged me by the legs out of the chimney and packed me off to
																																																																																	    bed, though it was only two o’clock in the afternoon of the 21st June,
																																																																																	    the longest day in the year in our hemisphere. I felt dreadfully. But
																																																																																	    there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my little room in the
																																																																																	    third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as to kill time,
																																																																																	    and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.

																																																																																	    I lay there dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse
																																																																																	    before I could hope for a resurrectidness, Queequeg, wake!” At length, by dint of much wriggling, and
																																																																																	    loud and incessant expostulations upon the unbecomingness of his
																																																																																	    hugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style, I succeeded in
																																																																																	    extracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm, shook himself
																																																																																	    all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat up in
																																																																																	    bed, stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if
																																																																																	    he did not altogether remember how I came to be there, though a dim
																																																																																	    consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over
																																																																																	    him. Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings
																																																																																	    now, and bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature. When, at
																																																																																	    last, his mind seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow,
																																																																																	    and he became, as it were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon
																																																																																	    the floor, and by certain signs and sounds gave me to understand that,
																																																																																	    if it pleased me, he would dress first and then leave me to dress
																																																																																	    afterwards, leaving the whole apartment to myself. Thinks I, Queequeg,
																																																																																	    under the circumstances, this is a very civilized overture; but, the
																																																																																	    truth is, these savages have an innate sense of delicacy, say what you
																																																																																	    will; it is marvellous how essentially polite they are. I pay this
																																																																																	    particular compliment to Queequeg, because he treated me with so much
																																																																																	    c
																																																																																	    vengeance. Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation when I came
																																																																																	    to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how
																																																																																	    exceedingly sharp the long straight edges are always kept.

																																																																																	    The rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of
																																																																																	    the room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his
																																																																																	    harpoon like a marshal’s baton.


																																																																																	    CHAPTER 5. Breakfast.

																																																																																	    I quickly followed suit, and descending into the bar-room accosted the
																																																																																	    grinning landlord very pleasantly. I cherished no malice towards him,
																																																																																	    though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the matter of my
																																																																																	    bedfellow.

																																																																																	    However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and rather too scarce a
																																																																																	    good thing; the more’s the pity. So, if any one man, in his own proper
																																																																																	    person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not be
																																																																																	    backward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in
																																																																																	    that way. And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about
																																																																																	    him, be sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.

																																																																																	    The bar-room was now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the
																																																																																	    night previous, and whom I had not as yet had a good look at. They were
																																																																																	    nearly all whalemen; chief mates, and second mates, and third mates,
																																																																																	    and sea carpenters, and sea coopers, and sea blacksmiths, and
																																																																																	    harpooneers, and ship keepers; a brown and brawny company, with bosky
																																																																																	    beards; an unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing monkey jackets for morning
																																																																																	    gowns.

																																																																																	    You could pretty plainly tell how long each one had been ashore. This
																																																																																	    young fellow’s healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted pear in hue, and
																																																																																	    would seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been three days
																																																																																	    landed from his Indian voyage. That man next him looks a few shades
																																																																																	    lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him. In the
																																																																																	    complexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly
																																																																																	    bleached withal; y done by him, and
																																																																																	    every one knows that in most people’s estimation, to do anything coolly
																																																																																	    is to do it genteelly.

																																																																																	    We will not speak of all Queequeg’s peculiarities here; how he eschewed
																																																																																	    coffee and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention to
																																																																																	    beefsteaks, done rare. Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew
																																																																																	    like the rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was
																																																																																	    sitting there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat
																																																																																	    on, when I sallied out for a stroll.


																																																																																	    CHAPTER 6. The Street.

																																																																																	    If I had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so outlandish
																																																																																	    an individual as Queequeg circulating among the polite society of a
																																																																																	    civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon taking my first
																																																																																	    daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford.

																																																																																	    In thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will
																																																																																	    frequently offer to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign
																																																																																	    parts. Even in Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners
																																																																																	    will sometimes jostle the affrighted ladies. Regent Street is not
																																																																																	    unknown to Lascars and Malays; and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live
																																																																																	    Yankees have often scared the natives. But New Bedford beats all Water
																																																																																	    Street and Wapping. In these last-mentioned haunts you see only
																																																																																	    sailors; but in New Bedford, actual cannibals stand chatting at street
																																																																																	    corners; savages outright; many of whom yet carry on their bones unholy
																																																																																	    flesh. It makes a stranger stare.

																																																																																	    Butat?

																																																																																	    In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to their
																																																																																	    daughters, and portion off their nieces with a few porpoises a-piece.
																																																																																	    You must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say,
																																																																																	    they have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly
																																																																																	    burn their lengths in spermaceti candles.

																																																																																	    In summer time, the town is sweet to see; full of fine maples—long
																																																																																	    avenues of green and gold. And in August, high in air, the beautiful
																																																																																	    and bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer the passer-by
																																																																																	    their tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms. So omnipotent is
																																																																																	    art; which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced bright
																																																																																	    terraces of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at
																																																																																	    creation’s final day.

																																																																																	    And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own red roses. But
																																																																																	    roses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of their cheeks
																																																																																	    is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens. Elsewhere match that
																																																																																	    bloom of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the young
																																																																																	    girls breathe such musk, their sailor sweethearts smell them miles off
																																																																																	    shore, as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of
																																																																																	    the Puritanic sands.


																																																																																	    CHAPTER 7. The Chapel.

																																																																																	    In this same New Bedford there stands a Whaleman’s Chapel, and few are
																																																																																	    the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the Indian Ocean or Pacific, who
																																																																																	    fail to make a Sunday visit to the spot. I am sure that I did not.

																																																																																	    Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied out upon this
																																																																																	    special errand. The sky had changed from clear, sunny cold, to driving
																																																																																	    sleet and mist. Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called
																																																																																	    bearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm. Entering, I found
																																																																																	    a small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors’ wives and
																																																																																	    widows. A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the shrieks
																																																																																	    of the storm. Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart
																																																																																	    frke these. What bitter blanks in
																																																																																	    those black-bordered marbles which cover no ashes! What despair in
																																																																																	    those immovable inscriptions! What deadly voids and unbidden
																																																																																	    infidelities in the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and refuse
																																																																																	    resurrections to the beings who have placelessly perished without a
																																																																																	    grave. As well might those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as
																																																																																	    here.

																																																																																	    In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included;
																																																																																	    why it is that a universal proverb says of them, that they tell no
																																																																																	    tales, though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands; how it is
																																																																																	    that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we prefix
																																																																																	    so significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, if
																																																																																	    he but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the
																																																																																	    Life Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in what
																																																																																	    eternal, unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet lies
																																																																																	    antique Adam who died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that we
																																																																																	    still refuse to be comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain are
																																																																																	    dwelling in unspeakable bliss; why all the living so strive to hush all
																																																																																	    the dead; wherefore but the rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify
																																																																																	    a whole city. All these things are not without their meanings.

																																																																																	    But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the tombs, and even from these
																																																																																	    dead doubts she gathers her most vital hope.

																																																																																	    It needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of a
																																																																																	    Nantucket voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murky
																																																																																	    light of that darkened, doleful day read the egular stairs to such a height would, by its long angle with the
																																																																																	    floor, seriously contract the already small area of the chapel, the
																																																																																	    architect, it seemed, had acted upon the hint of Father Mapple, and
																																																																																	    finished the pulpit without a stairs, substituting a perpendicular side
																																																																																	    ladder, like those used in mounting a ship from a boat at sea. The wife
																																																																																	    of a whaling captain had provided the chapel with a handsome pair of
																																																																																	    red worsted man-ropes for this ladder, which, being itself nicely
																																																																																	    headed, and stained with a mahogany colour, the whole contrivance,
																																																																																	    considering what manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in bad
																																																																																	    taste. Halting for an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with both
																																																																																	    hands grasping the ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple
																																																																																	    cast a look upwards, and then with a truly sailor-like but still
																																																																																	    reverential dexterity, hand over hand, mounted the steps as if
																																																																																	    ascending the main-top of his vessel.

																																																																																	    The perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the case
																																																																																	    with swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of
																																																																																	    wood, so that at every step there was a joint. At my first glimpse of
																																																																																	    the pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship,
																																																																																	    these joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary. For I was not
																																																																																	    prepared to see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turn
																																																																																	    round, and stooping over the pulpit, deliberatsea-boots among the benches, and a
																																																																																	    still slighter shuffling of women’s shoes, and all was quiet again, and
																																																																																	    every eye on the preacher.

																																																																																	    He paused a little; then kneeling in the pulpit’s bows, folded his
																																																																																	    large brown hands across his chest, uplifted his closed eyes, and
																																																																																	    offered a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying
																																																																																	    at the bottom of the sea.

																																																																																	    This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the continual tolling of a
																																																																																	    bell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog—in such tones he
																																																																																	    commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner towards
																																																																																	    the concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy—


																																																																																	      “The ribs and terrors in the whale, Arched over me a dismal gloom,
																																																																																	        While all God’s sun-lit waves rolled by, And lift me deepening down
																																																																																		  to doom.

																																																																																		    “I saw the opening maw of hell, With endless pains and sorrows there;
																																																																																		      Which none but they that feel can tell— Oh, I was plunging to
																																																																																		        despair.

																																																																																			  “In black distress, I called my God, When I could scarce believe him
																																																																																			    mine, He bowed his ear to my complaints— No more the whale did me
																																																																																			      confine.

																																																																																			        “With speed he flew to my relief, As on a radiant dolphin borne;
																																																																																				  Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone The face of me man! Oh! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with
																																																																																				  slouched hat and guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the
																																																																																				  shipping like a vile burglar hastening to cross the seas. So
																																																																																				  disordered, self-condemning is his look, that had there been policemen
																																																																																				  in those days, Jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had
																																																																																				  been arrested ere he touched a deck. How plainly he’s a fugitive! no
																																																																																				  baggage, not a hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag,—no friends accompany him
																																																																																				  to the wharf with their adieux. At last, after much dodging search, he
																																																																																				  finds the Tarshish ship receiving the last items of her cargo; and as
																																																																																				  he steps on board to see its Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for
																																																																																				  the moment desist from hoisting in the goods, to mark the stranger’s
																																																																																				  evil eye. Jonah sees this; but in vain he tries to look all ease and
																																																																																				  confidence; in vain essays his wretched smile. Strong intuitions of the
																																																																																				  man assure the mariners he can be no innocent. In their gamesome but
																																																																																				  still serious way, one whispers to the other—“Jack, he’s robbed a
																																																																																				  widow;” or, “Joe, do you mark him; he’s a bigamist;” or, “Harry lad, I
																																																																																				  guess he’s the adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike,
																																																																																				  one of the missing murderers from Sodom.” Another runs to read the bill
																																																																																				  that’s stuck against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is
																																																																																				  moored, offering five hbout the doors of
																																																																																				  convicts’ cells being never allowed to be locked within. All dressed
																																																																																				  and dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into his berth, and finds the
																																																																																				  little state-room ceiling almost resting on his forehead. The air is
																																																																																				  close, and Jonah gasps. Then, in that contracted hole, sunk, too,
																																																																																				  beneath the ship’s water-line, Jonah feels the heralding presentiment
																																																																																				  of that stifling hour, when the whale shall hold him in the smallest of
																																																																																				  his bowels’ wards.

																																																																																				  “Screwed at its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightly
																																																																																				  oscillates in Jonah’s room; and the ship, heeling over towards the
																																																																																				  wharf with the weight of the last bales received, the lamp, flame and
																																																																																				  all, though in slight motion, still maintains a permanent obliquity
																																																																																				  with reference to the room; though, in truth, infallibly straight
																																																																																				  itself, it but made obvious the false, lying levels among which it
																																																																																				  hung. The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his berth his
																																																																																				  tormented eyes roll round the place, and this thus far successful
																																																																																				  fugitive finds no refuge for his restless glance. But that
																																																																																				  contradiction in the lamp more and more appals him. The floor, the
																																																																																				  ceiling, and the side, are all awry. ‘Oh! so my conscience hangs in
																																																																																				  me!’ he groans, ‘straight upwards, so it be
																																																																																				  occupation? Whence comest thou? Thy country? What people? But mark now,
																																																																																				  my shipmates, the behavior of poor Jonah. The eager mariners but ask
																																																																																				  him who he is, and where from; whereas, they not only receive an answer
																																																																																				  to those questions, but likewise another answer to a question not put
																																																																																				  by them, but the unsolicited answer is forced from Jonah by the hard
																																																																																				  hand of God that is upon him.

																																																																																				  “‘I am a Hebrew,’ he cries—and then—‘I fear the Lord the God of Heaven
																																																																																				  who hath made the sea and the dry land!’ Fear him, O Jonah? Aye, well
																																																																																				  mightest thou fear the Lord God _then!_ Straightway, he now goes on to
																																																																																				  make a full confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more
																																																																																				  appalled, but still are pitiful. For when Jonah, not yet supplicating
																																																																																				  God for mercy, since he but too well knew the darkness of his
																																																																																				  deserts,—when wretched Jonah cries out to them to take him and cast him
																																																																																				  forth into the sea, for he knew that for _his_ sake this great tempest
																																																																																				  was upon them; they mercifully turn from him, and seek by other means
																																																																																				  to save the ship. But all in vain; the indignant gale howls louder;
																																																																																				  then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the other they not
																																																																																				  unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.

																																																																																				  “And now behold Jonah taken up as an anchor and dropped into the sea;
																																																																																				  when instantly an oily calmness flood is everywhere; Tarshish he never
																																																																																				  reached. As we have seen, God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed
																																																																																				  him down to living gulfs of doom, and with swift slantings tore him
																																																																																				  along ‘into the midst of the seas,’ where the eddying depths sucked him
																																																																																				  ten thousand fathoms down, and ‘the weeds were wrapped about his head,’
																																																																																				  and all the watery world of woe bowled over him. Yet even then beyond
																																																																																				  the reach of any plummet—‘out of the belly of hell’—when the whale
																																																																																				  grounded upon the ocean’s utmost bones, even then, God heard the
																																																																																				  engulphed, repenting prophet when he cried. Then God spake unto the
																																																																																				  fish; and from the shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale
																																																																																				  came breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the
																																																																																				  delights of air and earth; and ‘vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;’
																																																																																				  when the word of the Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and
																																																																																				  beaten—his ears, like two sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring
																																																																																				  of the ocean—Jonah did the Almighty’s bidding. And what was that,
																																																																																				  shipmates? To preach the Truth to the face of Falsehood! That was it!

																																																																																				  “This, shipmates, this is that other lesson; and woe to that piloling whistle of astonishment. He
																																																																																				  would then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number
																																																																																				  one each time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was
																																																																																				  only by such a large number of fifties being found together, that his
																																																																																				  astonishment at the multitude of pages was excited.

																																																																																				  With much interest I sat watching him. Savage though he was, and
																																																																																				  hideously marred about the face—at least to my taste—his countenance
																																																																																				  yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable. You
																																																																																				  cannot hide the soul. Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I
																																																																																				  saw the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes,
																																																																																				  fiery black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a
																																																																																				  thousand devils. And besides all this, there was a certain lofty
																																																																																				  bearing about the Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not
																																																																																				  altogether maim. He looked like a man who had never cringed and never
																																																																																				  had had a creditor. Whether it was, too, that his head being shaved,
																																																																																				  his forehead was drawn out in freer and brighter relief, and looked
																																																																																				  more expansive than it otherwise would, this I will not venture to
																																																																																				  decide; but certain it was his head was phrenologically an excellent
																																																																																				  one. It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General Washington’s
																																																																																				  head, as seen in the popular busts of him. It had the same long
																																																																																				  regularly graded retreating slope from above the brows pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness
																																																																																				  has proved but hollow courtesy. I drew my bench near him, and made some
																																																																																				  friendly signs and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile. At
																																																																																				  first he little noticed these advances; but presently, upon my
																																																																																				  referring to his last night’s hospitalities, he made out to ask me
																																																																																				  whether we were again to be bedfellows. I told him yes; whereat I
																																																																																				  thought he looked pleased, perhaps a little complimented.

																																																																																				  We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored to explain to
																																																																																				  him the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few pictures
																																																																																				  that were in it. Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we
																																																																																				  went to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to
																																																																																				  be seen in this famous town. Soon I proposed a social smoke; and,
																																																																																				  producing his pouch and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff. And
																																																																																				  then we sat exchanging puffs from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it
																																																																																				  regularly passing between us.

																																																																																				  If there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan’s
																																																																																				  breast, this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and
																																																																																				  left us cronies. He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and
																																																																																				  unbiddenly as I to him; and when our smoke was over, he pressed his
																																																																																				  forehead against mine, clasped me round the waist, and said that
																																																																																				  henceforth we were married; meaning, in his country’s phrase, that we
																																																																																				  were bst, by reason of our confabulations, what
																																																																																				  little nappishness remained in us altogether departed, and we felt like
																																																																																				  getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the future.

																																																																																				  Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent position
																																																																																				  began to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves
																																																																																				  sitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the
																																																																																				  head-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two
																																																																																				  noses bending over them, as if our kneepans were warming-pans. We felt
																																																																																				  very nice and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors;
																																																																																				  indeed out of bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the
																																																																																				  room. The more so, I say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some
																																																																																				  small part of you must be cold, for there is no quality in this world
																																																																																				  that is not what it is merely by contrast. Nothing exists in itself. If
																																																																																				  you flatter yourself that you are all over comfortable, and have been
																																																																																				  so a long time, then you cannot be said to be comfortable any more. But
																																																																																				  if, like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip of your nose or the crown
																																																																																				  of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed, in the general
																																																																																				  consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm. For
																																																																																				  this reason a sleeping apartment shouer or
																																																																																				  two. His father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and
																																																																																				  on the maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of
																																																																																				  unconquerable warriors. There was excellent blood in his veins—royal
																																																																																				  stuff; though sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he
																																																																																				  nourished in his untutored youth.

																																																																																				  A Sag Harbor ship visited his father’s bay, and Queequeg sought a
																																																																																				  passage to Christian lands. But the ship, having her full complement of
																																																																																				  seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father’s influence
																																																																																				  could prevail. But Queequeg vowed a vow. Alone in his canoe, he paddled
																																																																																				  off to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when
																																																																																				  she quitted the island. On one side was a coral reef; on the other a
																																																																																				  low tongue of land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into
																																																																																				  the water. Hiding his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, with
																																																																																				  its prow seaward, he sat down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and
																																																																																				  when the ship was gliding by, like a flash he darted out; gained her
																																																																																				  side; with one backward dash of his foot capsized and sank his canoe;
																																																																																				  climbed up the chains; and throwing himself at full length upon the
																																																																																				  deck, grappled a ring-bolt there, and swore not to let it go, though
																																																																																				  hacked in pieces.

																																																																																				  In vain the captain threatened to throw him overboard; suspended a
																																																																																				  cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the son of a King, and
																																																																																				  Queequege of great usefulness to one, who, like me, was
																																																																																				  wholly ignorant of the mysteries of whaling, though well acquainted
																																																																																				  with the sea, as known to merchant seamen.

																																																																																				  His story being ended with his pipe’s last dying puff, Queequeg
																																																																																				  embraced me, pressed his forehead against mine, and blowing out the
																																																																																				  light, we rolled over from each other, this way and that, and very soon
																																																																																				  were sleeping.


																																																																																				  CHAPTER 13. Wheelbarrow.

																																																																																				  Next morning, Monday, after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber,
																																																																																				  for a block, I settled my own and comrade’s bill; using, however, my
																																																																																				  comrade’s money. The grinning landlord, as well as the boarders, seemed
																																																																																				  amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between
																																																																																				  me and Queequeg—especially as Peter Coffin’s cock and bull stories
																																																																																				  about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person
																																																																																				  whom I now companied with.

																																																																																				  We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our things, including my own
																																																																																				  poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg’s canvas sack and hammock, away we went
																																																																																				  down to “the Moss,” the little Nantucket packet schooner moored at the
																																																																																				  wharf. As we were going along the people stared; not at Queequeg so
																																																																																				  much—for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their
																																																																																				  streets,—but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms. But we
																																																																																				  heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg
																																																																																				  now and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs. I
																																																																																				  asked him why he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and
																																																																																				  whether all whaling ships did not find their own harpoond King, especially in the King’s own
																																																																																				  house—the Captain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in the
																																																																																				  punchbowl;—taking it I suppose for a huge finger-glass. “Now,” said
																																																																																				  Queequeg, “what you tink now?—Didn’t our people laugh?”

																																																																																				  At last, passage paid, and luggage safe, we stood on board the
																																																																																				  schooner. Hoisting sail, it glided down the Acushnet river. On one
																																																																																				  side, New Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered trees
																																																																																				  all glittering in the clear, cold air. Huge hills and mountains of
																																																																																				  casks on casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the
																																																																																				  world-wandering whale ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while
																																																																																				  from others came a sound of carpenters and coopers, with blended noises
																																																																																				  of fires and forges to melt the pitch, all betokening that new cruises
																																																																																				  were on the start; that one most perilous and long voyage ended, only
																																																																																				  begins a second; and a second ended, only begins a third, and so on,
																																																																																				  for ever and for aye. Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerableness
																																																																																				  of all earthly effort.

																																																																																				  Gaining the more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little
																																																																																				  Moss tossed the quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his
																																																																																				  snortings. How I snuffed that Tartar air!—how I spurned that turnpike
																																																																																				  earth!—t the point of
																																																																																				  snapping into splinters. Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable
																																																																																				  of being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing
																																																																																				  the boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale. In the
																																																																																				  midst of this consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and
																																																																																				  crawling under the path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured
																																																																																				  one end to the bulwarks, and then flinging the other like a lasso,
																																																																																				  caught it round the boom as it swept over his head, and at the next
																																																																																				  jerk, the spar was that way trapped, and all was safe. The schooner was
																																																																																				  run into the wind, and while the hands were clearing away the stern
																																																																																				  boat, Queequeg, stripped to the waist, darted from the side with a long
																																																																																				  living arc of a leap. For three minutes or more he was seen swimming
																																																																																				  like a dog, throwing his long arms straight out before him, and by
																																																																																				  turns revealing his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam. I
																																																																																				  looked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one to be saved.
																																																																																				  The greenhorn had gone down. Shooting himself perpendicularly from the
																																																																																				  water, Queequeg, now took an instant’s glance around him, and seeming
																																																																																				  to see just how matters were, dived down and disappeared. A few minutes
																																																																																				  more, and he rose again, one arm still striking out, and with the other
																																																																																				  dragging a lifeless form. The boat soon picked them up. The poor
																																																																																				  bumpkin was restored. All hands voted Queequeg a n; and at last,
																																																																																				  launching a navy of great ships on the sea, explored this watery world;
																																																																																				  put an incessant belt of circumnavigations round it; peeped in at
																																																																																				  Behring’s Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans declared
																																																																																				  everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived the
																																																																																				  flood; most monstrous and most mountainous! That Himmalehan, salt-sea
																																																																																				  Mastodon, clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, that
																																																																																				  his very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and
																																																																																				  malicious assaults!

																																																																																				  And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea hermits, issuing from
																																																																																				  their ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world like
																																																																																				  so many Alexanders; parcelling out among them the Atlantic, Pacific,
																																																																																				  and Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did Poland. Let America
																																																																																				  add Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the English
																																																																																				  overswarm all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun;
																																																																																				  two thirds of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer’s. For the sea
																																																																																				  is his; he owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a
																																																																																				  right of way through it. Merchant ships are but extension bridges;
																																																																																				  armed ones but floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though
																																																																																				  following the sea as highwaymen the road, they eequeg, and one for me. It’s ominous, thinks
																																																																																				  I. A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port;
																																																																																				  tombstones staring at me in the whalemen’s chapel; and here a gallows!
																																																																																				  and a pair of prodigious black pots too! Are these last throwing out
																																																																																				  oblique hints touching Tophet?

																																																																																				  I was called from these reflections by the sight of a freckled woman
																																																																																				  with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of the inn,
																																																																																				  under a dull red lamp swinging there, that looked much like an injured
																																																																																				  eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen
																																																																																				  shirt.

																																																																																				  “Get along with ye,” said she to the man, “or I’ll be combing ye!”

																																																																																				  “Come on, Queequeg,” said I, “all right. There’s Mrs. Hussey.”

																																																																																				  And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving
																																																																																				  Mrs. Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs. Upon
																																																																																				  making known our desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey,
																																																																																				  postponing further scolding for the present, ushered us into a little
																																																																																				  room, and seating us at a table spread with the relics of a recently
																																																																																				  concluded repast, turned round to us and said—“Clam or Cod?”

																																																																																				  “What’s that about Cods, ma’am?” said I, with much politeness.

																																																																																				  “Clam or Cod?” she repeated.

																																																																																				  “A clam for supper? a cold clam; is _that_ w; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers. “Why not?” said I;
																																																																																				  “every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon—but why not?” “Because
																																																																																				  it’s dangerous,” says she. “Ever since young Stiggs coming from that
																																																																																				  unfort’nt v’y’ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with
																																																																																				  only three barrels of _ile_, was found dead in my first floor back,
																																																																																				  with his harpoon in his side; ever since then I allow no boarders to
																																																																																				  take sich dangerous weepons in their rooms at night. So, Mr. Queequeg”
																																																																																				  (for she had learned his name), “I will just take this here iron, and
																																																																																				  keep it for you till morning. But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow
																																																																																				  for breakfast, men?”

																																																																																				  “Both,” says I; “and let’s have a couple of smoked herring by way of
																																																																																				  variety.”


																																																																																				  CHAPTER 16. The Ship.

																																																																																				  In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow. But to my surprise and no
																																																																																				  small concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand, that he had been
																																																																																				  diligently consulting Yojo—the name of his black little god—and Yojo
																																																																																				  had told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it
																																																																																				  everyway, that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet in
																																																																																				  harbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say,
																																																																																				  Yojo earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest
																																																																																				  wholly with me, inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order
																																																																																				  to do so, had already pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself,
																																																																																				  I, Ishmael, should infallibly light upon, for all the world as though
																																																																																				  it had turned out by chance; and in that vessel Iut somewhere on the coast of
																																																																																				  Japan, where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale—her masts
																																																																																				  stood stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne. Her
																																																																																				  ancient decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped
																																																																																				  flag-stone in Canterbury Cathedral where Becket bled. But to all these
																																																																																				  her old antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining
																																																																																				  to the wild business that for more than half a century she had
																																																																																				  followed. Old Captain Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he
																																																																																				  commanded another vessel of his own, and now a retired seaman, and one
																																																																																				  of the principal owners of the Pequod,—this old Peleg, during the term
																																																																																				  of his chief-mateship, had built upon her original grotesqueness, and
																																																																																				  inlaid it, all over, with a quaintness both of material and device,
																																																																																				  unmatched by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake’s carved buckler or
																																																																																				  bedstead. She was apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his
																																																																																				  neck heavy with pendants of polished ivory. She was a thing of
																																																																																				  trophies. A cannibal of a craft, tricking herself forth in the chased
																																																																																				  bones of her enemies. All round, her unpanelled, open bulwarks were
																																																																																				  garnished like one continuous jaw, with the long sharp teeth of the
																																																																																				  sperm whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten heages in the merchant service, and I think that—”

																																																																																				  “Merchant service be damned. Talk not that lingo to me. Dost see that
																																																																																				  leg?—I’ll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest of
																																																																																				  the marchant service to me again. Marchant service indeed! I suppose
																																																																																				  now ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant
																																																																																				  ships. But flukes! man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh?—it
																																																																																				  looks a little suspicious, don’t it, eh?—Hast not been a pirate, hast
																																																																																				  thou?—Didst not rob thy last Captain, didst thou?—Dost not think of
																																																																																				  murdering the officers when thou gettest to sea?”

																																																																																				  I protested my innocence of these things. I saw that under the mask of
																																																																																				  these half humorous innuendoes, this old seaman, as an insulated
																																																																																				  Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and rather
																																																																																				  distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the
																																																																																				  Vineyard.

																																																																																				  “But what takes thee a-whaling? I want to know that before I think of
																																																																																				  shipping ye.”

																																																																																				  “Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is. I want to see the world.”

																																																																																				  “Want to see what whaling is, eh? Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab?”

																																																																																				  “Who is Captain Ahab, sir?”

																																																																																				  “Aye, aye, I thought so. Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship.”

																																																																																				  “I am mistaken then. I thought I was speaking to the Captain himself.”

																																																																																				  “Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg—that’s who ye are speaking to,
																																																																																				  young man. It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted
																																																																																				  out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including crew.,” I replied—“nothing but water; considerable horizon though,
																																																																																				  and there’s a squall coming up, I think.”

																																																																																				  “Well, what does thou think then of seeing the world? Do ye wish to go
																																																																																				  round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh? Can’t ye see the world where
																																																																																				  you stand?”

																																																																																				  I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would; and the
																																																																																				  Pequod was as good a ship as any—I thought the best—and all this I now
																																																																																				  repeated to Peleg. Seeing me so determined, he expressed his
																																																																																				  willingness to ship me.

																																																																																				  “And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off,” he added—“come
																																																																																				  along with ye.” And so saying, he led the way below deck into the
																																																																																				  cabin.

																																																																																				  Seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and
																																																																																				  surprising figure. It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along with
																																																																																				  Captain Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the other
																																																																																				  shares, as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd
																																																																																				  of old annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards;
																																																																																				  each owning about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a
																																																																																				  nail or two in the ship. People in Nantucket invest their money in
																																																																																				  whaling vessels, the sameinvaders, yet himself
																																																																																				  had illimitably invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn
																																																																																				  foe to human bloodshed, yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled
																																																																																				  tuns upon tuns of leviathan gore. How now in the contemplative evening
																																																																																				  of his days, the pious Bildad reconciled these things in the
																																																																																				  reminiscence, I do not know; but it did not seem to concern him much,
																																																																																				  and very probably he had long since come to the sage and sensible
																																																																																				  conclusion that a man’s religion is one thing, and this practical world
																																																																																				  quite another. This world pays dividends. Rising from a little
																																																																																				  cabin-boy in short clothes of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a
																																																																																				  broad shad-bellied waistcoat; from that becoming boat-header,
																																																																																				  chief-mate, and captain, and finally a ship owner; Bildad, as I hinted
																																																																																				  before, had concluded his adventurous career by wholly retiring from
																																																																																				  active life at the goodly age of sixty, and dedicating his remaining
																																																																																				  days to the quiet receiving of his well-earned income.

																																																																																				  Now, Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of being an
																																																																																				  incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard
																																																																																				  task-master. They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a
																																																																																				  curious story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew,
																																																																																				  upon arriving home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital,
																																																																																				  sore exhausted and worn out. For a pious man, especially for a Quaker,
																																																																																				  he was certald not be very large; but considering that I was used to the
																																																																																				  sea, could steer a ship, splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt
																																																																																				  that from all I had heard I should be offered at least the 275th
																																																																																				  lay—that is, the 275th part of the clear net proceeds of the voyage,
																																																																																				  whatever that might eventually amount to. And though the 275th lay was
																																																																																				  what they call a rather _long lay_, yet it was better than nothing; and
																																																																																				  if we had a lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay for the clothing I
																																																																																				  would wear out on it, not to speak of my three years’ beef and board,
																																																																																				  for which I would not have to pay one stiver.

																																																																																				  It might be thought that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely
																																																																																				  fortune—and so it was, a very poor way indeed. But I am one of those
																																																																																				  that never take on about princely fortunes, and am quite content if the
																																																																																				  world is ready to board and lodge me, while I am putting up at this
																																																																																				  grim sign of the Thunder Cloud. Upon the whole, I thought that the
																																																																																				  275th lay would be about the fair thing, but would not have been
																																																																																				  surprised had I been offered the 200th, considering I was of a
																																																																																				  broad-shouldered make.

																																																																																				  But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little distrustful about
																																																																																				  receiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore, I had heard
																																																																																				  something of bohat would be
																																																																																				  heavy enough to founder the largest ship that ever sailed round Cape
																																																																																				  Horn.”

																																																																																				  “Captain Peleg,” said Bildad steadily, “thy conscience may be drawing
																																																																																				  ten inches of water, or ten fathoms, I can’t tell; but as thou art
																																																																																				  still an impenitent man, Captain Peleg, I greatly fear lest thy
																																																																																				  conscience be but a leaky one; and will in the end sink thee foundering
																																																																																				  down to the fiery pit, Captain Peleg.”

																																																																																				  “Fiery pit! fiery pit! ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye
																																																																																				  insult me. It’s an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that
																																																																																				  he’s bound to hell. Flukes and flames! Bildad, say that again to me,
																																																																																				  and start my soul-bolts, but I’ll—I’ll—yes, I’ll swallow a live goat
																																																																																				  with all his hair and horns on. Out of the cabin, ye canting,
																																																																																				  drab-coloured son of a wooden gun—a straight wake with ye!”

																																																																																				  As he thundered out this he made a rush at Bildad, but with a
																																																																																				  marvellous oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that time eluded him.

																																																																																				  Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal and
																																																																																				  responsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up all
																																																																																				  idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily
																																																																																				  commanded, I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who,
																																																																																				  I made no doubt, was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened
																																																																																				  wrath of Peleg. But to my astonishment, he sat down again on the
																																																																																				  transom very quietly, and seemed to have not the slightest intention of
																																																																																				  withdrawing. He seemed quite used to impenitent Peleg and his ways. As
																																																																																				  for Peleg, after letting off his rage as he had, there seemed no more
																																																																																				  left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb, though he twitched a
																																																																																				  little as if still nervously agitated. “Whew!” he whistled at lalike him well enough; no
																																																																																				  fear, no fear. He’s a grand, ungodly, god-like man, Captain Ahab;
																																																																																				  doesn’t speak much; but, when he does speak, then you may well listen.
																																																																																				  Mark ye, be forewarned; Ahab’s above the common; Ahab’s been in
																																																																																				  colleges, as well as ’mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders
																																																																																				  than the waves; fixed his fiery lance in mightier, stranger foes than
																																																																																				  whales. His lance! aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our
																																																																																				  isle! Oh! he ain’t Captain Bildad; no, and he ain’t Captain Peleg;
																																																																																				  _he’s Ahab_, boy; and Ahab of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!”

																																																																																				  “And a very vile one. When that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did
																																																																																				  they not lick his blood?”

																																																																																				  “Come hither to me—hither, hither,” said Peleg, with a significance in
																																																																																				  his eye that almost startled me. “Look ye, lad; never say that on board
																																																																																				  the Pequod. Never say it anywhere. Captain Ahab did not name himself.
																																																																																				  ’Twas a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died
																																																																																				  when he was only a twelvemonth old. And yet the old squaw Tistig, at
																																																																																				  Gayhead, said that the name would somehow prove prophetic. And,
																																																																																				  perhaps, other fools like her may tell thee the same. I wish to warn
																																																																																				  thee. It’s a lie. I know Captain Ahab well; I’ve sailed with him as
																																																																																				  mate years ago; I know what he is—a good man—not a pious, good man,
																																																																																				  like Bildad, bd to be content;
																																																																																				  and there let him rest. All our arguing with him would not avail; let
																																																																																				  him be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all—Presbyterians and Pagans
																																																																																				  alike—for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and
																																																																																				  sadly need mending.

																																																																																				  Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances and
																																																																																				  rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door;
																																																																																				  but no answer. I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside.
																																																																																				  “Queequeg,” said I softly through the key-hole:—all silent. “I say,
																																																																																				  Queequeg! why don’t you speak? It’s I—Ishmael.” But all remained still
																																																																																				  as before. I began to grow alarmed. I had allowed him such abundant
																																																																																				  time; I thought he might have had an apoplectic fit. I looked through
																																																																																				  the key-hole; but the door opening into an odd corner of the room, the
																																																																																				  key-hole prospect was but a crooked and sinister one. I could only see
																																																																																				  part of the foot-board of the bed and a line of the wall, but nothing
																																																																																				  more. I was surprised to behold resting against the wall the wooden
																																																																																				  shaft of Queequeg’s harpoon, which the landlady the evening previous
																																																																																				  had taken from him, before our mounting to the chamber. That’s strange,
																																																																																				  thought I; but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he
																																																																																				  seldom or never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside
																																																																																				  here, and no possible mistake.

																																																																																				  “Queequeg!—Queequting her
																																																																																				  hand in her side-pocket, “here’s a key that’ll fit, I guess; let’s
																																																																																				  see.” And with that, she turned it in the lock; but, alas! Queequeg’s
																																																																																				  supplemental bolt remained unwithdrawn within.

																																																																																				  “Have to burst it open,” said I, and was running down the entry a
																																																																																				  little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again vowing
																																																																																				  I should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a
																																																																																				  sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark.

																																																																																				  With a prodigious noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming
																																																																																				  against the wall, sent the plaster to the ceiling; and there, good
																																																																																				  heavens! there sat Queequeg, altogether cool and self-collected; right
																																																																																				  in the middle of the room; squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on
																																																																																				  top of his head. He looked neither one way nor the other way, but sat
																																																																																				  like a carved image with scarce a sign of active life.

																																																																																				  “Queequeg,” said I, going up to him, “Queequeg, what’s the matter with
																																																																																				  you?”

																																																																																				  “He hain’t been a sittin’ so all day, has he?” said the landlady.

																																																																																				  But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost felt
																																																																																				  like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost
																																																																																				  intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally constrained;
																																																																																				  especially, as in all probability he had been siwhere I lay; pressed his
																																																																																				  forehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.

																																																																																				  Now, as I before hinted, I have no objection to any person’s religion,
																																																																																				  be it what it may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any
																																																																																				  other person, because that other person don’t believe it also. But when
																																																																																				  a man’s religion becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment
																																																																																				  to him; and, in fine, makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to
																																																																																				  lodge in; then I think it high time to take that individual aside and
																																																																																				  argue the point with him.

																																																																																				  And just so I now did with Queequeg. “Queequeg,” said I, “get into bed
																																																																																				  now, and lie and listen to me.” I then went on, beginning with the rise
																																																																																				  and progress of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various
																																																																																				  religions of the present time, during which time I labored to show
																																																																																				  Queequeg that all these Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings
																																																																																				  in cold, cheerless rooms were stark nonsense; bad for the health;
																																																																																				  useless for the soul; opposed, in short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene
																																																																																				  and common sense. I told him, too, that he being in other things such
																																																																																				  an extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it pained me, very badly
																																																																																				  pained me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about this ridiculous
																																																																																				  Ramadan of his. Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body cave in;
																																																																																				  hence the spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a nding on the wharf.

																																																																																				  “I mean,” he replied, “he must show his papers.”

																																																																																				  “Yes,” said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head from
																																																																																				  behind Peleg’s, out of the wigwam. “He must show that he’s converted.
																																																																																				  Son of darkness,” he added, turning to Queequeg, “art thou at present
																																																																																				  in communion with any Christian church?”

																																																																																				  “Why,” said I, “he’s a member of the first Congregational Church.” Here
																																																																																				  be it said, that many tattooed savages sailing in Nantucket ships at
																																																																																				  last come to be converted into the churches.

																																																																																				  “First Congregational Church,” cried Bildad, “what! that worships in
																																																																																				  Deacon Deuteronomy Coleman’s meeting-house?” and so saying, taking out
																																																																																				  his spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana
																																																																																				  handkerchief, and putting them on very carefully, came out of the
																																																																																				  wigwam, and leaning stiffly over the bulwarks, took a good long look at
																																																																																				  Queequeg.

																																																																																				  “How long hath he been a member?” he then said, turning to me; “not
																																																																																				  very long, I rather guess, young man.”

																																																																																				  “No,” said Peleg, “and he hasn’t been baptized right either, or it
																																																																																				  would have washed some of that devil’s blue off his face.”

																																																																																				  “Do tell, now,” cried Bildad, “is this Philistine a regular member of
																																																																																				  Deacon Deuteronomy’s meeting? I never saw him going there, and I pass
																																																																																				  it every Lord’s day.”

																																																																																				  “I don’t know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeting,” said
																																																																																				  I; “all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the First
																																																																																				  Congregational Church. He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is.”

																																																																																				  “Young man,” said Bildad sternly, “thou art skylarking witwrite, does he? I say, Quohog, blast ye! dost thou sign thy name
																																																																																				  or make thy mark?”

																																																																																				  But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken
																																																																																				  part in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking the
																																																																																				  offered pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact
																																																																																				  counterpart of a queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so
																																																																																				  that through Captain Peleg’s obstinate mistake touching his
																																																																																				  appellative, it stood something like this:—

																																																																																				  Quohog. his X mark.

																																																																																				  Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and steadfastly eyeing Queequeg,
																																																																																				  and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the huge pockets of his
																																																																																				  broad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts, and selecting one
																																																																																				  entitled “The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose,” placed it in
																																																																																				  Queequeg’s hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his,
																																																																																				  looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, “Son of darkness, I must do
																																																																																				  my duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for
																																																																																				  the souls of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways,
																																																																																				  which I sadly fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial
																																																																																				  bondsman. Spurn the idol Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from the
																																																																																				  wrath to come; mind thine eye, I say; oh! goodness gracious! steer
																																																																																				  clear of the fiery pit!”

																																																																																				  Something of the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad’s language,
																																																																																				  heterogeneously muninterrupted look at him.

																																																																																				  “Aye, the Pequod—that ship there,” he said, drawing back his whole arm,
																																																																																				  and then rapidly shoving it straight out from him, with the fixed
																																																																																				  bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the object.

																																																																																				  “Yes,” said I, “we have just signed the articles.”

																																																																																				  “Anything down there about your souls?”

																																																																																				  “About what?”

																																																																																				  “Oh, perhaps you hav’n’t got any,” he said quickly. “No matter though,
																																																																																				  I know many chaps that hav’n’t got any,—good luck to ’em; and they are
																																																																																				  all the better off for it. A soul’s a sort of a fifth wheel to a
																																																																																				  wagon.”

																																																																																				  “What are you jabbering about, shipmate?” said I.

																																																																																				  “_He’s_ got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that
																																																																																				  sort in other chaps,” abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous
																																																																																				  emphasis upon the word _he_.

																																																																																				  “Queequeg,” said I, “let’s go; this fellow has broken loose from
																																																																																				  somewhere; he’s talking about something and somebody we don’t know.”

																																																																																				  “Stop!” cried the stranger. “Ye said true—ye hav’n’t seen Old Thunder
																																																																																				  yet, have ye?”

																																																																																				  “Who’s Old Thunder?” said I, again riveted with the insane earnestness
																																																																																				  of his manner.

																																																																																				  “Captain Ahab.”

																																																																																				  “What! the captain of our ship, the Pequod?”

																																																																																				  “Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name. Ye
																																																																																				  hav’n’t seen him yet, have ye?”

																																																																																				  “No, we hav’n’t. He’s sick they say, but is getting better, and will be
																																																																																				  all right again before long.”

																																																																																				  “All , shipmates,
																																																																																				  morning! Oh! when ye get there, tell ’em I’ve concluded not to make one
																																																																																				  of ’em.”

																																																																																				  “Ah, my dear fellow, you can’t fool us that way—you can’t fool us. It
																																																																																				  is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a
																																																																																				  great secret in him.”

																																																																																				  “Morning to ye, shipmates, morning.”

																																																																																				  “Morning it is,” said I. “Come along, Queequeg, let’s leave this crazy
																																																																																				  man. But stop, tell me your name, will you?”

																																																																																				  “Elijah.”

																																																																																				  Elijah! thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after each
																																																																																				  other’s fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he was
																																																																																				  nothing but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear. But we had not gone
																																																																																				  perhaps above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and
																																																																																				  looking back as I did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us,
																																																																																				  though at a distance. Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I
																																																																																				  said nothing to Queequeg of his being behind, but passed on with my
																																																																																				  comrade, anxious to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner
																																																																																				  that we did. He did; and then it seemed to me that he was dogging us,
																																																																																				  but with what intent I could not for the life of me imagine. This
																																																																																				  circumstance, coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting, half-revealing,
																																																																																				  shrouded sort of talk, now begat in me all kinds of vague wonderments
																																																																																				  and half-apprehensions, and all connected with the Pequod; and Captain
																																																																																				  Ahab; and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn fit; and the silver
																																																																																				  calabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when I left the ship
																																																																																				  the day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig; and the
																																																																																				  voyage we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowy
																																																																																				  things.

																																																																																				  I was resolved to satisfyCaptain and duplicate ship.

																																																																																				  At the period of our arrival at the Island, the heaviest storage of the
																																																																																				  Pequod had been almost completed; comprising her beef, bread, water,
																																																																																				  fuel, and iron hoops and staves. But, as before hinted, for some time
																																																																																				  there was a continual fetching and carrying on board of divers odds and
																																																																																				  ends of things, both large and small.

																																																																																				  Chief among those who did this fetching and carrying was Captain
																																																																																				  Bildad’s sister, a lean old lady of a most determined and indefatigable
																																																																																				  spirit, but withal very kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if _she_
																																																																																				  could help it, nothing should be found wanting in the Pequod, after
																																																																																				  once fairly getting to sea. At one time she would come on board with a
																																																																																				  jar of pickles for the steward’s pantry; another time with a bunch of
																																																																																				  quills for the chief mate’s desk, where he kept his log; a third time
																																																																																				  with a roll of flannel for the small of some one’s rheumatic back.
																																																																																				  Never did any woman better deserve her name, which was Charity—Aunt
																																																																																				  Charity, as everybody called her. And like a sister of charity did this
																																																																																				  charitable Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither, ready to turn
																																																																																				  her hand and heart to anything that promised to yield safety, comfort,
																																																																																				  and consolation to all on board a ship in which her beloved brother
																																																																																				  Bildad was concerned, and in which she herself owned a score or two of
																																																																																				  well-saved dollars.

																																																																																				  But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on
																																																																																				  board, as she did the last day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and
																																																																																				  a  withdrawing. We
																																																																																				  are going to the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and would prefer not to be
																																																																																				  detained.”

																																																																																				  “Ye be, be ye? Coming back afore breakfast?”

																																																																																				  “He’s cracked, Queequeg,” said I, “come on.”

																																																																																				  “Holloa!” cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few
																																																																																				  paces.

																																																																																				  “Never mind him,” said I, “Queequeg, come on.”

																																																																																				  But he stole up to us again, and suddenly clapping his hand on my
																																																																																				  shoulder, said—“Did ye see anything looking like men going towards that
																																																																																				  ship a while ago?”

																																																																																				  Struck by this plain matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying, “Yes,
																																																																																				  I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure.”

																																																																																				  “Very dim, very dim,” said Elijah. “Morning to ye.”

																																																																																				  Once more we quitted him; but once more he came softly after us; and
																																																																																				  touching my shoulder again, said, “See if you can find ’em now, will
																																																																																				  ye?

																																																																																				  “Find who?”

																																																																																				  “Morning to ye! morning to ye!” he rejoined, again moving off. “Oh! I
																																																																																				  was going to warn ye against—but never mind, never mind—it’s all one,
																																																																																				  all in the family too;—sharp frost this morning, ain’t it? Good-bye to
																																																																																				  ye. Shan’t see ye again very soon, I guess; unless it’s before the
																																																																																				  Grand Jury.” And with these cracked words he finally departed, leaving
																																																																																				  me, for the moment, in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence.

																																																																																				  At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found everything in profound
																																																																																				  quiet, not a soul moving. The cabin entr, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed
																																																																																				  his soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger. The
																																																																																				  strong vapor now completely filling the contracted hole, it began to
																																																																																				  tell upon him. He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed
																																																																																				  troubled in the nose; then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and
																																																																																				  rubbed his eyes.

																																																																																				  “Holloa!” he breathed at last, “who be ye smokers?”

																																																																																				  “Shipped men,” answered I, “when does she sail?”

																																																																																				  “Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye? She sails to-day. The Captain
																																																																																				  came aboard last night.”

																																																																																				  “What Captain?—Ahab?”

																																																																																				  “Who but him indeed?”

																																																																																				  I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we
																																																																																				  heard a noise on deck.

																																																																																				  “Holloa! Starbuck’s astir,” said the rigger. “He’s a lively chief mate,
																																																																																				  that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn to.” And so
																																																																																				  saying he went on deck, and we followed.

																																																																																				  It was now clear sunrise. Soon the crew came on board in twos and
																																																																																				  threes; the riggers bestirred themselves; the mates were actively
																																																																																				  engaged; and several of the shore people were busy in bringing various
																																																																																				  last things on board. Meanwhile Captain Ahab remained invisibly
																																																																																				  enshrined within his cabin.


																																																																																				  CHAPTER 22. Merry Christmas.

																																																																																				  At length, towards noon, upon the final dismissal of the ship’s
																																																																																				  riggers, and after the Pequod had been hauled out from the wharf, and
																																																																																				  after the ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a whale-boat, with
																																																																																				  her last giftâover the bows for the
																																																																																				  approaching anchor, and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave
																																																																																				  of psalmody, to cheer the hands at the windlass, who roared forth some
																																																																																				  sort of a chorus about the girls in Booble Alley, with hearty good
																																																																																				  will. Nevertheless, not three days previous, Bildad had told them that
																																																																																				  no profane songs would be allowed on board the Pequod, particularly in
																																																																																				  getting under weigh; and Charity, his sister, had placed a small choice
																																																																																				  copy of Watts in each seaman’s berth.

																																																																																				  Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg ripped
																																																																																				  and swore astern in the most frightful manner. I almost thought he
																																																																																				  would sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I
																																																																																				  paused on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of
																																																																																				  the perils we both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for
																																																																																				  a pilot. I was comforting myself, however, with the thought that in
																																																																																				  pious Bildad might be found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred
																																																																																				  and seventy-seventh lay; when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear,
																																																																																				  and turning round, was horrified at the apparition of Captain Peleg in
																																																																																				  the act of withdrawing his leg from my immediate vicinity. That was my
																																																																																				  first kick.

																																																																																				  “Is that the way they heave in the marchant service?” he roared.
																																																																																				  “Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and break thy backbone! Why don’t ye
																																																																																				  spring, I say, all of ye—spring! Quohog! spring, thou chap with the red
																																																																																				  whiskers; spring there, Scotch-cap; spring, thou green pants. Spring, I
																																																																																				  say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!” And so saying, he moved
																																																																																				  along the windlass, here and there using his leg very freely, while
																																																																																				  imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody. Thinks I,
																																																																																				  Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.

																																																																																				  At last the anchor was up, the sails were set, and off we glided. It
																																																																																				  was a short, cold Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into
																																																																																				  night, we found ourselves almost broad upon thehand, and holding up a lantern,
																																																																																				  for a moment stood gazing heroically in his face, as much as to say,
																																																																																				  “Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it; yes, I can.”

																																																																																				  As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but for all
																																																																																				  his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the lantern
																																																																																				  came too near. And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck—now
																																																																																				  a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.

																																																																																				  But, at last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look about
																																																																																				  him,—“Captain Bildad—come, old shipmate, we must go. Back the main-yard
																																																																																				  there! Boat ahoy! Stand by to come close alongside, now! Careful,
																																																																																				  careful!—come, Bildad, boy—say your last. Luck to ye, Starbuck—luck to
																																																																																				  ye, Mr. Stubb—luck to ye, Mr. Flask—good-bye and good luck to ye
																																																																																				  all—and this day three years I’ll have a hot supper smoking for ye in
																																																																																				  old Nantucket. Hurrah and away!”

																																																																																				  “God bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men,” murmured old
																																																																																				  Bildad, almost incoherently. “I hope ye’ll have fine weather now, so
																																																																																				  that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye—a pleasant sun is all he
																																																																																				  needs, and ye’ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go. Be
																																																																																				  careful in the hunt, ye mates. Don’t stave the boats needlessly, ye
																																																																																				  harpooneers; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent.
																																																																																				  within the year. Don’t forget your prayers, either. Mr. Starbuck, ,
																																																																																				  indefinite as God—so, better is it to perish in that howling infinite,
																																																																																				  than be ingloriously dashed upon the lee, even if that were safety! For
																																																																																				  worm-like, then, oh! who would craven crawl to land! Terrors of the
																																																																																				  terrible! is all this agony so vain? Take heart, take heart, O
																																																																																				  Bulkington! Bear thee grimly, demigod! Up from the spray of thy
																																																																																				  ocean-perishing—straight up, leaps thy apotheosis!


																																																																																				  CHAPTER 24. The Advocate.

																																																																																				  As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked in this business of whaling;
																																																																																				  and as this business of whaling has somehow come to be regarded among
																																																																																				  landsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable pursuit; therefore, I
																																																																																				  am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the injustice hereby
																																																																																				  done to us hunters of whales.

																																																																																				  In the first place, it may be deemed almost superfluous to establish
																																																																																				  the fact, that among people at large, the business of whaling is not
																																																																																				  accounted on a level with what are called the liberal professions. If a
																																																																																				  stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society,
																																																																																				  it would but slightly advance the general opinion of his merits, were
																																																																																				  he presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in emulation
																																																																																				  of the naval officers he should append the initials S.W.F. (Sperm Whale
																																																																																				  Fishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed
																																																																																				  pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.

																																																																																				  Doubtless one leading reason why the world declines honoring us
																																																																																				  whalemen, is this: they think that, at best, our the high and mighty business of whaling. One way
																																																																																				  and another, it has begotten events so remarkable in themselves, and so
																																																																																				  continuously momentous in their sequential issues, that whaling may
																																																																																				  well be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore offspring themselves
																																																																																				  pregnant from her womb. It would be a hopeless, endless task to
																																																																																				  catalogue all these things. Let a handful suffice. For many years past
																																																																																				  the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest and
																																																																																				  least known parts of the earth. She has explored seas and archipelagoes
																																																																																				  which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed. If
																																																																																				  American and European men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage
																																																																																				  harbors, let them fire salutes to the honor and glory of the
																																																																																				  whale-ship, which originally showed them the way, and first interpreted
																																																																																				  between them and the savages. They may celebrate as they will the
																																																																																				  heroes of Exploring Expeditions, your Cooks, your Krusensterns; but I
																																																																																				  say that scores of anonymous Captains have sailed out of Nantucket,
																																																																																				  that were as great, and greater than your Cook and your Krusenstern.
																																																																																				  For in their succourless empty-handedness, they, in the heathenish
																																																																																				  sharked waters, and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands,
																																																																																				  battled with virgin wonders and terrors that Cook with all his marines
																																																																																				  and muskets would not willingly have daby marriage, Mary Folger, one of the old settlers of
																																																																																				  Nantucket, and the ancestress to a long line of Folgers and
																																																																																				  harpooneers—all kith and kin to noble Benjamin—this day darting the
																																																																																				  barbed iron from one side of the world to the other.

																																																																																				  Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not
																																																																																				  respectable.

																																																																																				  _Whaling not respectable?_ Whaling is imperial! By old English
																																																																																				  statutory law, the whale is declared “a royal fish.” *

																																																																																				  Oh, that’s only nominal! The whale himself has never figured in any
																																																																																				  grand imposing way.

																																																																																				  _The whale never figured in any grand imposing way?_ In one of the
																																																																																				  mighty triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the world’s
																																																																																				  capital, the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian
																																																																																				  coast, were the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.*

																																																																																				  *See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.

																																																																																				  Grant it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no real
																																																																																				  dignity in whaling.

																																																																																				  _No dignity in whaling?_ The dignity of our calling the very heavens
																																																																																				  attest. Cetus is a constellation in the South! No more! Drive down your
																																																																																				  hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg! No more! I
																																																																																				  know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty
																																																																																				  whales. I account that man more honorable than that great captain of
																																																																																				  antiquity who boasted of taking as many walled towns.

																																																																																				  And, as for me, if, by any possibility, there be any as yet
																																																																																				  undiscovered prime thing in me; if I shall ever deserve any real repute
																																																																																				  in that small but high hushed world which I might not be unreasonably
																																																																																				  ambitious of; if hereafter I shall do anything that, upon the whole, a
																																																																																				  man might rather have done than to have left undone; if, at my death,
																																																																																				  my executors, or more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS. in
																																																																																				  my desk, then here I prospectively ascribe all the honor and the glory
																																																																																				  to whaling; for a whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.


																																																																																				  CHAPTER 25. Postscript.

																																																																																				  In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I would fain advance naught but
																																																																																				  fluousness. But this, his
																																																																																				  thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the token of wasting anxieties
																																																																																				  and cares, than it seemed the indication of any bodily blight. It was
																																																																																				  merely the condensation of the man. He was by no means ill-looking;
																																																																																				  quite the contrary. His pure tight skin was an excellent fit; and
																																																																																				  closely wrapped up in it, and embalmed with inner health and strength,
																																																																																				  like a revivified Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure for
																																																																																				  long ages to come, and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow
																																																																																				  or torrid sun, like a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was
																																																																																				  warranted to do well in all climates. Looking into his eyes, you seemed
																																																																																				  to see there the yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he
																																																																																				  had calmly confronted through life. A staid, steadfast man, whose life
																																																																																				  for the most part was a telling pantomime of action, and not a tame
																																																																																				  chapter of sounds. Yet, for all his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there
																																																																																				  were certain qualities in him which at times affected, and in some
																																																																																				  cases seemed well nigh to overbalance all the rest. Uncommonly
																																																																																				  conscientious for a seaman, and endued with a deep natural reverence,
																																																																																				  the wild watery loneliness of his life did therefore strongly incline
																																																																																				  him to superstition; but to that sort of superstition, which in some
																																																																																				  organizations seems rather to spring, somehow, from intelligence than
																																																																																				  from ignorance. Outward portents and inward presentiments were his. And
																																																																																				  if at times these things bent the welded iron of his soul, much more
																																																																																				  did his far-away domestic memories of his young Cape wife and child,
																																																																																				  tend to bend him still more from the original ruggedness of his nature,
																																																																																				  and open him  of an enraged
																																																																																				  and mighty man.

																																																																																				  But were the coming narrative to reveal in any instance, the complete
																																																																																				  abasement of poor Starbuck’s fortitude, scarce might I have the heart
																																																																																				  to write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking, to expose
																																																																																				  the fall of valour in the soul. Men may seem detestable as joint
																																																																																				  stock-companies and nations; knaves, fools, and murderers there may be;
																																																																																				  men may have mean and meagre faces; but man, in the ideal, is so noble
																																																																																				  and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing creature, that over any
																																																																																				  ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run to throw their
																																																																																				  costliest robes. That immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves, so
																																																																																				  far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer character
																																																																																				  seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle of a
																																																																																				  valor-ruined man. Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
																																																																																				  completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars. But
																																																																																				  this august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes,
																																																																																				  but that abounding dignity which has no robed investiture. Thou shalt
																																																																																				  see it shining in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that
																																																																																				  democratic dignity which, on all hands, radiates without end from God;
																																																																																				  Himself! The great God absolute! The centre and circumference of all
																																																																																				  democracy! His omnipresence, our divine equality!

																																																																																				  If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and castaways, I shall
																																																																																				  hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round them tragic
																																																																																				  graces; if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased, among
																																																																																				  them all, shall at times lift hort, black
																																																																																				  little pipe was one of the regular features of his face. You would
																																																																																				  almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his
																																																																																				  nose as without his pipe. He kept a whole row of pipes there ready
																																																																																				  loaded, stuck in a rack, within easy reach of his hand; and, whenever
																																																																																				  he turned in, he smoked them all out in succession, lighting one from
																																																																																				  the other to the end of the chapter; then loading them again to be in
																																																																																				  readiness anew. For, when Stubb dressed, instead of first putting his
																																																																																				  legs into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.

																																																																																				  I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his
																																																																																				  peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air,
																																																																																				  whether ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless
																																																																																				  miseries of the numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in
																																																																																				  time of the cholera, some people go about with a camphorated
																																																																																				  handkerchief to their mouths; so, likewise, against all mortal
																																																																																				  tribulations, Stubb’s tobacco smoke might have operated as a sort of
																																																																																				  disinfecting agent.

																																																																																				  The third mate was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in Martha’s Vineyard. A
																																																																																				  short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very pugnacious concerning whales,
																																																																																				  who somehow seemed to think that the great leviathans had personally
																																																																																				  and hereditarily affronted him; and therefore it was a sort of point of
																																																																																				  honor with him, to destroy them whenever encountered. So urctic in their glittering expression—all this sufficiently
																																																																																				  proclaimed him an inheritor of the unvitiated blood of those proud
																																																																																				  warrior hunters, who, in quest of the great New England moose, had
																																																																																				  scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal forests of the main. But no longer
																																																																																				  snuffing in the trail of the wild beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now
																																																																																				  hunted in the wake of the great whales of the sea; the unerring harpoon
																																																																																				  of the son fitly replacing the infallible arrow of the sires. To look
																																																																																				  at the tawny brawn of his lithe snaky limbs, you would almost have
																																																																																				  credited the superstitions of some of the earlier Puritans, and
																																																																																				  half-believed this wild Indian to be a son of the Prince of the Powers
																																																																																				  of the Air. Tashtego was Stubb the second mate’s squire.

																																																																																				  Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic, coal-black
																																																																																				  negro-savage, with a lion-like tread—an Ahasuerus to behold. Suspended
																																																																																				  from his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called
																																																																																				  them ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to
																																																																																				  them. In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler,
																																																																																				  lying in a lonely bay on his native coast. And never having been
																																																																																				  anywhere in the world but in Africa, y. Yes, their supreme lord and
																																																																																				  dictator was there, though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to
																																																																																				  penetrate into the now sacred retreat of the cabin.

																																																																																				  Every time I ascended to the deck from my watches below, I instantly
																																																																																				  gazed aft to mark if any strange face were visible; for my first vague
																																																																																				  disquietude touching the unknown captain, now in the seclusion of the
																																																																																				  sea, became almost a perturbation. This was strangely heightened at
																																																																																				  times by the ragged Elijah’s diabolical incoherences uninvitedly
																																																																																				  recurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived
																																																																																				  of. But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was
																																																																																				  almost ready to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish
																																																																																				  prophet of the wharves. But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or
																																																																																				  uneasiness—to call it so—which I felt, yet whenever I came to look
																																																																																				  about me in the ship, it seemed against all warrantry to cherish such
																																																																																				  emotions. For though the harpooneers, with the great body of the crew,
																																																																																				  were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the
																																																																																				  tame merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made me
																																																																																				  acquainted with, still I ascribed this—and rightly ascribed it—to the
																																																																																				  fierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation
																																																																																				  in which I had so abandonedly embarked. But it was especially the
																																																																																				  aspect of the three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was
																																																																																				  most forcibly calculated to allay these colourless misgivings, and
																																																																																				  induce confidence and cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage.
																																																																																				  Three better, moNevertheless,
																																																																																				  the old sea-traditions, the immemorial credulities, popularly invested
																																																																																				  this old Manxman with preternatural powers of discernment. So that no
																																																																																				  white sailor seriously contradicted him when he said that if ever
																																																																																				  Captain Ahab should be tranquilly laid out—which might hardly come to
																																																																																				  pass, so he muttered—then, whoever should do that last office for the
																																																																																				  dead, would find a birth-mark on him from crown to sole.

																																																																																				  So powerfully did the whole grim aspect of Ahab affect me, and the
																																																																																				  livid brand which streaked it, that for the first few moments I hardly
																																																																																				  noted that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to the
																																																																																				  barbaric white leg upon which he partly stood. It had previously come
																																																																																				  to me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished
																																																																																				  bone of the sperm whale’s jaw. “Aye, he was dismasted off Japan,” said
																																																																																				  the old Gay-Head Indian once; “but like his dismasted craft, he shipped
																																																																																				  another mast without coming home for it. He has a quiver of ’em.”

																																																																																				  I was struck with the singular posture he maintained. Upon each side of
																																																																																				  the Pequod’s quarter deck, and pretty close to the mizzen shrouds,
																																																																																				  there was an auger hole, bored about half an inch or so, into the
																																																																																				  plank. His bone leg steadied in that hole; one arm elevated, and
																																																																																				  holding by a shroud; Captain Ahab stood e memory of their absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted
																																																																																				  suns! For sleeping man, ’twas hard to choose between such winsome days
																																																																																				  and such seducing nights. But all the witcheries of that unwaning
																																																																																				  weather did not merely lend new spells and potencies to the outward
																																																																																				  world. Inward they turned upon the soul, especially when the still mild
																																																																																				  hours of eve came on; then, memory shot her crystals as the clear ice
																																																																																				  most forms of noiseless twilights. And all these subtle agencies, more
																																																																																				  and more they wrought on Ahab’s texture.

																																																																																				  Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less
																																																																																				  man has to do with aught that looks like death. Among sea-commanders,
																																																																																				  the old greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the
																																																																																				  night-cloaked deck. It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he
																																																																																				  seemed so much to live in the open air, that truly speaking, his visits
																																																																																				  were more to the cabin, than from the cabin to the planks. “It feels
																																																																																				  like going down into one’s tomb,”—he would mutter to himself—“for an
																																																																																				  old captain like me to be descending this narrow scuttle, to go to my
																																																																																				  grave-dug berth.”

																																																																																				  So, almost every twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night were
																																																																																				  set, and the band on deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below;
																																																																																				  and when if a rope was to be hauled upon the fores something on his mind, as sure as there must be
																																																																																				  something on a deck when it cracks. He aint in his bed now, either,
																																																																																				  more than three hours out of the twenty-four; and he don’t sleep then.
																																																																																				  Didn’t that Dough-Boy, the steward, tell me that of a morning he always
																																																																																				  finds the old man’s hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the
																																																																																				  sheets down at the foot, and the coverlid almost tied into knots, and
																																																																																				  the pillow a sort of frightful hot, as though a baked brick had been on
																																																																																				  it? A hot old man! I guess he’s got what some folks ashore call a
																																																																																				  conscience; it’s a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say—worse nor a
																																																																																				  toothache. Well, well; I don’t know what it is, but the Lord keep me
																																																																																				  from catching it. He’s full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into the
																																																																																				  after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what’s
																																																																																				  that for, I should like to know? Who’s made appointments with him in
																																																																																				  the hold? Ain’t that queer, now? But there’s no telling, it’s the old
																																																																																				  game—Here goes for a snooze. Damn me, it’s worth a fellow’s while to be
																																																																																				  born into the world, if only to fall right asleep. And now that I think
																																																																																				  of it, that’s about the first thing babies do, and that’s a sort of
																																																																																				  queer, too. Damn me, but all things are queer, come to think of ’em.
																																																																																				  But that’s against my principles. Think not, is my eleventh
																																																																																				  commandment; and sleep when you can, is my twelfth—So here goes again.
																																																																																				  But how’s that? didn’t he call me a dog? blazes! he called me ten times
																																																																																				  a donkey, and piled a lot of jackasses on top of _that!_ He might as
																																																																																				  well have kicked me, and done with it. Maybe he _did_ kick me, and I
																																																																																				  didn’t observe it, I was so taken all aback with his brow, somehow. It
																																																																																				  flashed like a bleached brious all dreams are—through all this rage that I was in, I somehow
																																																																																				  seemed to be thinking to myself, that after all, it was not much of an
																																																																																				  insult, that kick from Ahab. ‘Why,’ thinks I, ‘what’s the row? It’s not
																																																																																				  a real leg, only a false leg.’ And there’s a mighty difference between
																																																																																				  a living thump and a dead thump. That’s what makes a blow from the
																																																																																				  hand, Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane.
																																																																																				  The living member—that makes the living insult, my little man. And
																																																																																				  thinks I to myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly
																																																																																				  toes against that cursed pyramid—so confoundedly contradictory was it
																																																																																				  all, all the while, I say, I was thinking to myself, ‘what’s his leg
																																																																																				  now, but a cane—a whalebone cane. Yes,’ thinks I, ‘it was only a
																																																																																				  playful cudgelling—in fact, only a whaleboning that he gave me—not a
																																																																																				  base kick. Besides,’ thinks I, ‘look at it once; why, the end of it—the
																																																																																				  foot part—what a small sort of end it is; whereas, if a broad footed
																																																																																				  farmer kicked me, _there’s_ a devilish broad insult. But this insult is
																																																																																				  whittled down to a point only.’ But now comes the greatest joke of the
																																																																																				  dream, Flask. While I was battering away at the pyramid, a sort of
																																																																																				  badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by the
																																																																																				  shoulders, and slews me round. ‘What are you ’bout?’ says he. Slid!
																																																																																				  man, but I was frightened.mething special in the wind. Stand by for it, Flask.
																																																																																				  Ahab has that that’s bloody on his mind. But, mum; he comes this way.”


																																																																																				  CHAPTER 32. Cetology.

																																																																																				  Already we are boldly launched upon the deep; but soon we shall be lost
																																																																																				  in its unshored, harbourless immensities. Ere that come to pass; ere
																																																																																				  the Pequod’s weedy hull rolls side by side with the barnacled hulls of
																																																																																				  the leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a matter
																																																																																				  almost indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the
																																																																																				  more special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which
																																																																																				  are to follow.

																																																																																				  It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera,
																																																																																				  that I would now fain put before you. Yet is it no easy task. The
																																																																																				  classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here
																																																																																				  essayed. Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.

																																																																																				  “No branch of Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled
																																																																																				  Cetology,” says Captain Scoresby, A.D. 1820.

																																																																																				  “It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter into the inquiry
																																																																																				  as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups and families.
																																																																																				  * * * Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal”
																																																																																				  (sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A.D. 1839.

																																																																																				  “Unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters.”
																																																																																				  “Impenetrable veil covering our knowledge of the cetacthe sperm whale, scientific or poetic,
																																																																																				  lives not complete in any literature. Far above all other hunted
																																																																																				  whales, his is an unwritten life.

																																																																																				  Now the various species of whales need some sort of popular
																																																																																				  comprehensive classification, if only an easy outline one for the
																																																																																				  present, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by subsequent
																																																																																				  laborers. As no better man advances to take this matter in hand, I
																																																																																				  hereupon offer my own poor endeavors. I promise nothing complete;
																																																																																				  because any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very
																																																																																				  reason infallibly be faulty. I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical
																																																																																				  description of the various species, or—in this place at least—to much
																																																																																				  of any description. My object here is simply to project the draught of
																																																																																				  a systematization of cetology. I am the architect, not the builder.

																																																																																				  But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary letter-sorter in the
																																																																																				  Post-Office is equal to it. To grope down into the bottom of the sea
																																																																																				  after them; to have one’s hands among the unspeakable foundations,
																																																																																				  ribs, and very pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing. What am I
																																																																																				  that I should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan! The awful
																																																																																				  tauntings in Job might well appal me. Will he (the leviathan) make a
																																																																																				  covenant with thee? Behold the hope of him is vain! But I have swam
																																																																																				  through libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do with
																																																																																				  whales with these vre that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins and
																																																																																				  Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are
																																																																																				  included by many naturalists among the whales. But as these pig-fish
																																																																																				  are a noisy, contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers,
																																																																																				  and feeding on wet hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny
																																																																																				  their credentials as whales; and have presented them with their
																																																																																				  passports to quit the Kingdom of Cetology.

																																																																																				  First: According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary
																																																																																				  BOOKS (subdivisible into CHAPTERS), and these shall comprehend them
																																																																																				  all, both small and large.

																																																																																				  I. THE FOLIO WHALE; II. the OCTAVO WHALE; III. the DUODECIMO WHALE.

																																																																																				  As the type of the FOLIO I present the _Sperm Whale_; of the OCTAVO,
																																																																																				  the _Grampus_; of the DUODECIMO, the _Porpoise_.

																																																																																				  FOLIOS. Among these I here include the following chapters:—I. The
																																																																																				  _Sperm Whale_; II. the _Right Whale_; III. the _Fin-Back Whale_; IV.
																																																																																				  the _Hump-backed Whale_; V. the _Razor Back Whale_; VI. the _Sulphur
																																																																																				  Bottom Whale_.

																																																																																				  BOOK I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER I. (_Sperm Whale_).—This whale, among the
																																																																																				  English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter
																																																																																				  whale, and the Anvil Headed whale, is the present Cachalot of the
																																																																																				  French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and the Macrocephalus of the
																																																																																				  Long Words. He is, without doubt, the largest inhabitant of the globe;
																																																																																				  the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the most majestic in
																																																																																				  aspect; and  grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single
																																																																																				  determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction. It is by
																																																																																				  endless subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that
																																																																																				  some departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate.
																																																																																				  The right whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with
																																																																																				  reference to elucidating the sperm whale.

																																																																																				  BOOK I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER III. (_Fin-Back_).—Under this head I reckon
																																																																																				  a monster which, by the various names of Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and
																																																																																				  Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is commonly the whale
																																																																																				  whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing the
																																																																																				  Atlantic, in the New York packet-tracks. In the length he attains, and
																																																																																				  in his baleen, the Fin-back resembles the right whale, but is of a less
																																																																																				  portly girth, and a lighter colour, approaching to olive. His great
																																																																																				  lips present a cable-like aspect, formed by the intertwisting, slanting
																																																																																				  folds of large wrinkles. His grand distinguishing feature, the fin,
																																																																																				  from which he derives his name, is often a conspicuous object. This fin
																																																																																				  is some three or four feet long, growing vertically from the hinder
																																																																																				  part of the back, of an angular shape, and with a very sharp pointed
																																																																																				  end. Even if not the slightest other part of the creature be visible,
																																																																																				  this isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from the
																																																																																				  surface. When the sea is modatomy—there, at least, we shall be able to hit the
																																																																																				  right classification. Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the
																																																																																				  Greenland whale’s anatomy more striking than his baleen? Yet we have
																																																																																				  seen that by his baleen it is impossible correctly to classify the
																																																																																				  Greenland whale. And if you descend into the bowels of the various
																																																																																				  leviathans, why there you will not find distinctions a fiftieth part as
																																																																																				  available to the systematizer as those external ones already
																																																																																				  enumerated. What then remains? nothing but to take hold of the whales
																																																																																				  bodily, in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them that way.
																																																																																				  And this is the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the only
																																																																																				  one that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable. To proceed.

																																																																																				  BOOK I. (_Folio_) CHAPTER IV. (_Hump Back_).—This whale is often seen
																																																																																				  on the northern American coast. He has been frequently captured there,
																																																																																				  and towed into harbor. He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or
																																																																																				  you might call him the Elephant and Castle whale. At any rate, the
																																																																																				  popular name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him, since the
																																																																																				  sperm whale also has a hump though a smaller one. His oil is not very
																																																																																				  valuable. He has baleen. He is the most gamesome and light-hearted of
																																																																																				  all the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any
																																																																																				  other of them.

																																																																																				  BOOK I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER V. (_Razor Back_).—Of this is whale
																																																																																				  averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length. He is found in almost
																																																																																				  all latitudes. He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal hooked fin
																																																																																				  in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose. When not more
																																																																																				  profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the
																																																																																				  Hyena whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic
																																																																																				  employment—as some frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, and
																																																																																				  quite alone by themselves, burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax.
																																																																																				  Though their blubber is very thin, some of these whales will yield you
																																																																																				  upwards of thirty gallons of oil.

																																																																																				  BOOK II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER III. (_Narwhale_), that is, _Nostril
																																																																																				  whale_.—Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose
																																																																																				  from his peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose. The
																																																																																				  creature is some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five
																																																																																				  feet, though some exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet. Strictly
																																																																																				  speaking, this horn is but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw
																																																																																				  in a line a little depressed from the horizontal. But it is only found
																																																																																				  on the sinister side, which has an ill effect, giving its owner
																																																																																				  something analogous to the aspect o. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER V. (_Thrasher_).—This gentleman is famous
																																																																																				  for his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes. He
																																																																																				  mounts the Folio whale’s back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
																																																																																				  flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar
																																																																																				  process. Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer. Both
																																																																																				  are outlaws, even in the lawless seas.

																																																																																				   Thus ends BOOK II. (_Octavo_), and begins BOOK III. (_Duodecimo_).

																																																																																				   DUODECIMOES.—These include the smaller whales. I. The Huzza Porpoise.
																																																																																				   II. The Algerine Porpoise. III. The Mealy-mouthed Porpoise.

																																																																																				   To those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it may
																																																																																				   possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five
																																																																																				   feet should be marshalled among WHALES—a word, which, in the popular
																																																																																				   sense, always conveys an idea of hugeness. But the creatures set down
																																																																																				   above as Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my
																																																																																				   definition of what a whale is—_i.e._ a spouting fish, with a horizontal
																																																																																				   tail.

																																																																																				   BOOK III. (_Duodecimo_), CHAPTER 1. (_Huzza Porpoise_).—This is the
																																																																																				   common porpoise found almost all over the globe. The name is of my own
																																																																																				   bestowal; for there are more than one sort of porpoises, and something
																																																																																				   must be done to distinguish them. I call him thus, because he always
																																																																																				   swims in hilarious shoals, which upon the broad sea keep tossing
																																																																																				   themselves tby their
																																																																																				   fore-castle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to
																																																																																				   future investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun. If
																																																																																				   any of the following whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then
																																																																																				   he can readily be incorporated into this System, according to his
																																																																																				   Folio, Octavo, or Duodecimo magnitude:—The Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk
																																																																																				   Whale; the Pudding-Headed Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the
																																																																																				   Cannon Whale; the Scragg Whale; the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale;
																																																																																				   the Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale; the Blue Whale; etc. From Icelandic,
																																																																																				   Dutch, and old English authorities, there might be quoted other lists
																																																																																				   of uncertain whales, blessed with all manner of uncouth names. But I
																																																																																				   omit them as altogether obsolete; and can hardly help suspecting them
																																																																																				   for mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but signifying nothing.

																																																																																				   Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system would not be
																																																																																				   here, and at once, perfected. You cannot but plainly see that I have
																																																																																				   kept my word. But I now leave my cetological System standing thus
																																																																																				   unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the
																																																																																				   crane still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower. For small
																																																																																				   erections may be finished by their first architects; grand ones, true
																																																																																				   ones, ever leave the copestone to posterity. God keep me from ever
																																																																																				   completing anything. This whole book is but a draught—nay, but the
																																																																																				   draught of a draught. Oh, Time, Strength, Cash, and Patience!


																																																																																				   CHAPTER 33. The Specksnyder.

																																																																																				   Concerning the o discipline than in merchantmen generally; yet, never mind
																																																																																				   how much like an old Mesopotamian family these whalemen may, in some
																																																																																				   primitive instances, live together; for all that, the punctilious
																																																																																				   externals, at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially relaxed,
																																																																																				   and in no instance done away. Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships in
																																																																																				   which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated
																																																																																				   grandeur not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost as
																																																																																				   much outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the
																																																																																				   shabbiest of pilot-cloth.

																																																																																				   And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the least
																																																																																				   given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage
																																																																																				   he ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though he
																																																																																				   required no man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon the
																																																																																				   quarter-deck; and though there were times when, owing to peculiar
																																																																																				   circumstances connected with events hereafter to be detailed, he
																																																																																				   addressed them in unusual terms, whether of condescension or _in
																																																																																				   terrorem_, or otherwise; yet even Captain Ahab was by no means
																																																																																				   unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.

																																																																																				   Nor, perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind
																																																																																				   those forms and usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself;
																																																																																				   incidentally making use of them for other and more private ends than
																																																																																				   they were legitimately intended to subserve. That certain sultanism of
																																																																																				   his brain, which had otherwise in a good degree remained unmanifested;
																																																																																				   through those forms that same sultanism became incarnate in an
																																																																																				   ind, after a grave peep into the binnacle, says, with some touch of
																																																																																				   pleasantness, “Dinner, Mr. Stubb,” and descends the scuttle. The second
																																																																																				   Emir lounges about the rigging awhile, and then slightly shaking the
																																																																																				   main brace, to see whether it will be all right with that important
																																																																																				   rope, he likewise takes up the old burden, and with a rapid “Dinner,
																																																																																				   Mr. Flask,” follows after his predecessors.

																																																																																				   But the third Emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck,
																																																																																				   seems to feel relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all
																																																																																				   sorts of knowing winks in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his
																																																																																				   shoes, he strikes into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right
																																																																																				   over the Grand Turk’s head; and then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching
																																																																																				   his cap up into the mizentop for a shelf, he goes down rollicking so
																																																																																				   far at least as he remains visible from the deck, reversing all other
																																																																																				   processions, by bringing up the rear with music. But ere stepping into
																																																																																				   the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face altogether, and,
																																																																																				   then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab’s presence,
																																																																																				   in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.

																																																																																				   It is not the least among the strange things bred by the intense
																																																																																				   artificialness of sea-usages, that while in the open air of the deck
																																																																																				   some officers will, upon provocation, bear themselves boldly and
																																																																																				   defyingly enough towards their commander; yet, ten to one, let those
																																																																																				   very officers the next moment go down to their customary dinner in that
																																																																																				   same commander’s cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not to say
																																																																																				   deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of the
																																																																																				   table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical. Whee. Had he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never
																																																																																				   more would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world;
																																																																																				   nevertheless, strange to say, Ahab never forbade him. And had Flask
																																																																																				   helped himself, the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it.
																																																																																				   Least of all, did Flask presume to help himself to butter. Whether he
																																																																																				   thought the owners of the ship denied it to him, on account of its
																																																																																				   clotting his clear, sunny complexion; or whether he deemed that, on so
																																																																																				   long a voyage in such marketless waters, butter was at a premium, and
																																																																																				   therefore was not for him, a subaltern; however it was, Flask, alas!
																																																																																				   was a butterless man!

																																																																																				   Another thing. Flask was the last person down at the dinner, and Flask
																																																																																				   is the first man up. Consider! For hereby Flask’s dinner was badly
																																																																																				   jammed in point of time. Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him;
																																																																																				   and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear. If Stubb
																																																																																				   even, who is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small
																																																																																				   appetite, and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask
																																																																																				   must bestir himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that
																																																																																				   day; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to thethings they demanded, he
																																																																																				   would escape from their clutches into his little pantry adjoining, and
																																																																																				   fearfully peep out at them through the blinds of its door, till all was
																																																																																				   over.

																																																																																				   It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against Tashtego, opposing
																																																																																				   his filed teeth to the Indian’s: crosswise to them, Daggoo seated on
																																																																																				   the floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed head to the
																																																																																				   low carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the low
																																																																																				   cabin framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in
																																																																																				   a ship. But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious,
																																																																																				   not to say dainty. It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively
																																																																																				   small mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so
																																																																																				   broad, baronial, and superb a person. But, doubtless, this noble savage
																																																																																				   fed strong and drank deep of the abounding element of air; and through
																																																																																				   his dilated nostrils snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds. Not by
																																																																																				   beef or by bread, are giants made or nourished. But Queequeg, he had a
																																																																																				   mortal, barbaric smack of the lip in eating—an ugly sound enough—so
																																																																																				   much so, that the trembling Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether any
																																																																																				   marks of teeth lurked in his own lean arms. And when he would hear
																																																																																				   Tashtego singing out for him to produce himself, that his bones might
																																																																																				   be picked, the simple-witted steward all but shattered the crockery
																																																																																				   hanging round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the palsy. Nor
																																																																																				   did the whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets, for
																																																																																				   their lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner,
																																																																																				   they would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound did
																																																																																				   not at all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy. How could he forget
																																																																																				   that in his Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been
																																																																																				   guilty of some murderous, convivial indiscretions. Alas! Dough-Boy!
																																																																																				   hard fares the white waiter who waits upon cannibals. Not a napkin
																																																																																				   should he carry on his arm, but a buckler. In good time, though, to his
																																																																																				   great delight, tvial
																																																																																				   even—then, her mast-heads are kept manned to the last; and not till her
																																																																																				   skysail-poles sail in among the spires of the port, does she altogether
																																																																																				   relinquish the hope of capturing one whale more.

																																																																																				   Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a
																																																																																				   very ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate
																																																																																				   here. I take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old
																																																																																				   Egyptians; because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them.
																																																																																				   For though their progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by
																																																																																				   their tower, have intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia,
																																																																																				   or Africa either; yet (ere the final truck was put to it) as that great
																																																																																				   stone mast of theirs may be said to have gone by the board, in the
																																																																																				   dread gale of God’s wrath; therefore, we cannot give these Babel
																																																																																				   builders priority over the Egyptians. And that the Egyptians were a
																																																																																				   nation of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the general
																																																																																				   belief among archæologists, that the first pyramids were founded for
																																																																																				   astronomical purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar
																																																																																				   stair-like formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with
																																																																																				   prodigious long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were
																																																																																				   wont to mount to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the
																																																																																				   look-outs of a modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing
																																																																																				   ixceedingly
																																																																																				   pleasant the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is
																																																																																				   delightful. There you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks,
																																																																																				   striding along the deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while
																																																																																				   beneath you and between your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters
																																																																																				   of the sea, even as ships once sailed between the boots of the famous
																																																																																				   Colossus at old Rhodes. There you stand, lost in the infinite series of
																																																																																				   the sea, with nothing ruffled but the waves. The tranced ship
																																																																																				   indolently rolls; the drowsy trade winds blow; everything resolves you
																																																																																				   into languor. For the most part, in this tropic whaling life, a sublime
																																																																																				   uneventfulness invests you; you hear no news; read no gazettes; extras
																																																																																				   with startling accounts of commonplaces never delude you into
																																																																																				   unnecessary excitements; you hear of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt
																																																																																				   securities; fall of stocks; are never troubled with the thought of what
																																																																																				   you shall have for dinner—for all your meals for three years and more
																																																																																				   are snugly stowed in casks, and your bill of fare is immutable.

																																																																																				   In one of those southern whalesmen, on a long three or four years’
																																																																																				   voyage, as often happens, the sum of the various hours you spend at the
																																																																																				   mast-head would amount to several entire months. And it is much to be
																																																																																				   deplored that the place to which you devote so considerable a portion
																																																																																				   of the whole term of your natural life, should be so sadly  In front is a leather
																																																																																				   rack, in which to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and
																																																																																				   other nautical conveniences. When Captain Sleet in person stood his
																																																																																				   mast-head in this crow’s-nest of his, he tells us that he always had a
																																																																																				   rifle with him (also fixed in the rack), together with a powder flask
																																																																																				   and shot, for the purpose of popping off the stray narwhales, or
																																																																																				   vagrant sea unicorns infesting those waters; for you cannot
																																																																																				   successfully shoot at them from the deck owing to the resistance of the
																																																																																				   water, but to shoot down upon them is a very different thing. Now, it
																																																																																				   was plainly a labor of love for Captain Sleet to describe, as he does,
																																																																																				   all the little detailed conveniences of his crow’s-nest; but though he
																																																																																				   so enlarges upon many of these, and though he treats us to a very
																																																																																				   scientific account of his experiments in this crow’s-nest, with a small
																																																																																				   compass he kept there for the purpose of counteracting the errors
																																																																																				   resulting from what is called the “local attraction” of all binnacle
																																																																																				   magnets; an error ascribable to the horizontal vicinity of the iron in
																																																																																				   the ship’s planks, and in the Glacier’s case, perhaps, to there having
																																																																																				   been so many broken-down blacksmiths among hernot feeling sufficient
																																																																																				   “interest” in the voyage; half-hinting that they are so hopelessly lost
																																																																																				   to all honorable ambition, as that in their secret souls they would
																																																																																				   rather not see whales than otherwise. But all in vain; those young
																																																																																				   Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are
																																																																																				   short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve? They have
																																																																																				   left their opera-glasses at home.

																																																																																				   “Why, thou monkey,” said a harpooneer to one of these lads, “we’ve been
																																																																																				   cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not raised a whale
																																																																																				   yet. Whales are scarce as hen’s teeth whenever thou art up here.”
																																																																																				   Perhaps they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in
																																																																																				   the far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of
																																																																																				   vacant, unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending
																																																																																				   cadence of waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity;
																																																																																				   takes the mystic ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep,
																																																																																				   blue, bottomless soul, pervading mankind and nature; and every strange,
																																																																																				   half-seen, gliding, beautiful thing that eludes him; every
																																																																																				   dimly-discovered, uprising fin of some undiscernible form, seems to him
																																																																																				   the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that only people the soul by
																																																																																				   continually flitting through it. In this enchanted mood, thy spirit
																																																																																				   ebbs away to whence it came; becomes diffused through timting his eyes among the crew,
																																																																																				   started from his standpoint; and as though not a soul were nigh him
																																																																																				   resumed his heavy turns upon the deck. With bent head and half-slouched
																																																																																				   hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering among
																																																																																				   the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have
																																																																																				   summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat.
																																																																																				   But this did not last long. Vehemently pausing, he cried:—

																																																																																				   “What do ye do when ye see a whale, men?”

																																																																																				   “Sing out for him!” was the impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbed
																																																																																				   voices.

																																																																																				   “Good!” cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the
																																																																																				   hearty animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically
																																																																																				   thrown them.

																																																																																				   “And what do ye next, men?”

																																																																																				   “Lower away, and after him!”

																																																																																				   “And what tune is it ye pull to, men?”

																																																																																				   “A dead whale or a stove boat!”

																																																																																				   More and more strangely and fiercely glad and approving, grew the
																																																																																				   countenance of the old man at every shout; while the mariners began to
																																																																																				   gaze curiously at each other, as if marvelling how it was that they
																																																																																				   themselves became so excited at such seemingly purposeless questions.

																																																																																				   But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab, now half-revolving in his
																																																																																				   piptain Ahab,” said Starbuck, who, with Stubb and Flask, had thus far
																																																																																				   been eyeing his superior with increasing surprise, but at last seemed
																																																																																				   struck with a thought which somewhat explained all the wonder. “Captain
																																																																																				   Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick—but it was not Moby Dick that took off
																																																																																				   thy leg?”

																																																																																				   “Who told thee that?” cried Ahab; then pausing, “Aye, Starbuck; aye, my
																																																																																				   hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted me; Moby Dick that
																																																																																				   brought me to this dead stump I stand on now. Aye, aye,” he shouted
																																																																																				   with a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken moose;
																																																																																				   “Aye, aye! it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a poor
																																																																																				   pegging lubber of me for ever and a day!” Then tossing both arms, with
																																																																																				   measureless imprecations he shouted out: “Aye, aye! and I’ll chase him
																																																																																				   round Good Hope, and round the Horn, and round the Norway Maelstrom,
																																																																																				   and round perdition’s flames before I give him up. And this is what ye
																																																																																				   have shipped for, men! to chase that white whale on both sides of land,
																																																																																				   and over all sides of earth, till he spouts black blood and rolls fin
																																																																																				   out. What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now? I think ye do
																																																																																				   look brave.”

																																																																																				   “Aye, aye!” shouted the harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the
																																																																																				   excited old man: “A sharp eye for the white whale; a sharp lance for
																																																																																				   Moby Dick!”

																																																																																				   “Gohat live; and seek, and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel!
																																																																																				   The crew, man, the crew! Are they not one and all with Ahab, in this
																																																																																				   matter of the whale? See Stubb! he laughs! See yonder Chilian! he
																																																																																				   snorts to think of it. Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one
																																																																																				   tost sapling cannot, Starbuck! And what is it? Reckon it. ’Tis but to
																																																																																				   help strike a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck. What is it more? From
																																																																																				   this one poor hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely
																																																																																				   he will not hang back, when every foremast-hand has clutched a
																																																																																				   whetstone? Ah! constrainings seize thee; I see! the billow lifts thee!
																																																																																				   Speak, but speak!—Aye, aye! thy silence, then, _that_ voices thee.
																																																																																				   (_Aside_) Something shot from my dilated nostrils, he has inhaled it in
																																																																																				   his lungs. Starbuck now is mine; cannot oppose me now, without
																																																																																				   rebellion.”

																																																																																				   “God keep me!—keep us all!” murmured Starbuck, lowly.

																																																																																				   But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the mate, Ahab
																																																																																				   did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh from the
																																																																																				   hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of the winds in the cordage; nor
																																																																																				   yet the hollow flap of the sails against the masts, as for a moment
																																																																																				   their hearts sank in. For again Starbuck’s downcast eyes lighted up
																																																																																				   with the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died away; the
																																																																																				   winds blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as
																																																																																				   before. Ah, ye admonitions and warnings! why stay ye not when ye come?
																																																																																				   But rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows! Yet not so
																																																																																				   much predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things
																																																																																				   within. For with little external to constrain us, the innermost
																																																																																				   necessities in our being, these still drive us on.

																																																																																				   “The measure! the measure!” cried Ahab.

																																																																																				   Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to thhad perhaps expired from out me. Perchance, too, it would have dropped
																																																																																				   ye dead. Perchance ye need it not. Down lances! And now, ye mates, I do
																																																																																				   appoint ye three cupbearers to my three pagan kinsmen there—yon three
																																																																																				   most honorable gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers. Disdain
																																																																																				   the task? What, when the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using
																																																																																				   his tiara for ewer? Oh, my sweet cardinals! your own condescension,
																																																																																				   _that_ shall bend ye to it. I do not order ye; ye will it. Cut your
																																																																																				   seizings and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!”

																																																																																				   Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the
																																																																																				   detached iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs
																																																																																				   up, before him.

																																																																																				   “Stab me not with that keen steel! Cant them; cant them over! know ye
																																																																																				   not the goblet end? Turn up the socket! So, so; now, ye cup-bearers,
																																																																																				   advance. The irons! take them; hold them while I fill!” Forthwith,
																																																																																				   slowly going from one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon
																																																																																				   sockets with the fiery waters from the pewter.

																																																																																				   “Now, three to three, ye stand. Commend the murderous chalices! Bestow
																																																																																				   them, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble league. Ha!
																																																																																				   Starbuck! but the deed ye_ have run and hidden. Come forth from behind your cotton bags!
																																																																																				   I have no long gun to reach ye. Come, Ahab’s compliments to ye; come
																																																																																				   and see if ye can swerve me. Swerve me? ye cannot swerve me, else ye
																																																																																				   swerve yourselves! man has ye there. Swerve me? The path to my fixed
																																																																																				   purpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run.
																																																																																				   Over unsounded gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under
																																																																																				   torrents’ beds, unerringly I rush! Naught’s an obstacle, naught’s an
																																																																																				   angle to the iron way!


																																																																																				   CHAPTER 38. Dusk.

																																																																																				   _By the Mainmast; Starbuck leaning against it_.

																																																																																				   My soul is more than matched; she’s overmanned; and by a madman!
																																																																																				   Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field! But
																																																																																				   he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me! I think I
																																																																																				   see his impious end; but feel that I must help him to it. Will I, nill
																																																																																				   I, the ineffable thing has tied me to him; tows me with a cable I have
																																																																																				   no knife to cut. Horrible old man! Who’s over him, he cries;—aye, he
																																																																																				   would be a democrat to all above; look, how he lords it over all below!
																																																																																				   Oh! I plainly see my miserable office,—to obey, rebelling; and worse
																																																																																				   yet, to hate with touch of pity! For in his eyes I read some lurid woe
																																																																																				   would shrivel me up, had I it. Yet is there hope. Time and tide flow
																																																																																				   wide. The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the
																																																																																				   small gold-fish  job—coming.


																																																																																				   CHAPTER 40. Midnight, Forecastle.

																																																																																				   HARPOONEERS AND SAILORS.

																																																																																				   (_Foresail rises and discovers the watch standing, lounging, leaning,
																																																																																				   and lying in various attitudes, all singing in chorus_.)


																																																																																				     Farewell and adieu to you, Spanish ladies! Farewell and adieu to you,
																																																																																				       ladies of Spain! Our captain’s commanded.—



																																																																																				       1ST NANTUCKET SAILOR. Oh, boys, don’t be sentimental; it’s bad for the
																																																																																				       digestion! Take a tonic, follow me!

																																																																																				       (_Sings, and all follow._)


																																																																																				        Our captain stood upon the deck, A spy-glass in his hand, A viewing of
																																																																																					 those gallant whales That blew at every strand. Oh, your tubs in your
																																																																																					  boats, my boys, And by your braces stand, And we’ll have one of those
																																																																																					   fine whales, Hand, boys, over hand! So, be cheery, my lads! may your
																																																																																					    hearts never fail! While the bold harpooner is striking the whale!



																																																																																					    MATE’S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Eight bells there, forward!

																																																																																					    2ND NANTUCKET SAILOR. Avast the chorus! Eight bells there! d’ye hear,
																																																																																					    bell-boy? Strike the bell eight, thou Pip! thou blackling! and let me
																																																																																					    call the watch. I’ve the sort of mouth for that—the hogshead mouth. So,
																																																																																					    so, (_thrusts his head down the scuttle_,) Star-bo-l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!
																																																																																					    Eight bells there below! Tumble up!

																																																																																					    DUTCH SAILOR. Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that. I mark
																																																																																					    this in our old Mogul’s wine; it’s quite as deadening to some asg after
																																																																																					    whales in a calm—give us a whiff, Tash.

																																																																																					    (_They cease dancing, and gather in clusters. Meantime the sky
																																																																																					    darkens—the wind rises_.)

																																																																																					    LASCAR SAILOR. By Brahma! boys, it’ll be douse sail soon. The sky-born,
																																																																																					    high-tide Ganges turned to wind! Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva!

																																																																																					    MALTESE SAILOR. (_Reclining and shaking his cap_.) It’s the waves—the
																																																																																					    snow’s caps turn to jig it now. They’ll shake their tassels soon. Now
																																																																																					    would all the waves were women, then I’d go drown, and chassee with
																																																																																					    them evermore! There’s naught so sweet on earth—heaven may not match
																																																																																					    it!—as those swift glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the
																																																																																					    over-arboring arms hide such ripe, bursting grapes.

																																																																																					    SICILIAN SAILOR. (_Reclining_.) Tell me not of it! Hark ye, lad—fleet
																																																																																					    interlacings of the limbs—lithe swayings—coyings—flutterings! lip!
																																																																																					    heart! hip! all graze: unceasing touch and go! not taste, observe ye,
																																																																																					    else come satiety. Eh, Pagan? (_Nudging_.)

																																																																																					    TAHITAN SAILOR. (_Reclining on a mat_.) Hail, holy nakedness of our
																																																																																					    dancing girls!—the Heeva-Heeva! Ah! low veiled, high palmed Tahiti! I
																																																																																					    still rest me on thy mat, but the soft soil has slid! I saw thee woven
																																																																																					    in the wood, my mat! green the first day I brought ye thence; now worn
																																																																																					    and wilted quite. Ah me!—not thou nor I can bear the change! How then,
																																																																																					    if so be transplanted to yon sky? es? Lord help such jollies!
																																																																																					    Crish, crash! there goes the jib-stay! Blang-whang! God! Duck lower,
																																																																																					    Pip, here comes the royal yard! It’s worse than being in the whirled
																																																																																					    woods, the last day of the year! Who’d go climbing after chestnuts now?
																																																																																					    But there they go, all cursing, and here I don’t. Fine prospects to
																																																																																					    ’em; they’re on the road to heaven. Hold on hard! Jimmini, what a
																																																																																					    squall! But those chaps there are worse yet—they are your white
																																																																																					    squalls, they. White squalls? white whale, shirr! shirr! Here have I
																																																																																					    heard all their chat just now, and the white whale—shirr! shirr!—but
																																																																																					    spoken of once! and only this evening—it makes me jingle all over like
																																																																																					    my tambourine—that anaconda of an old man swore ’em in to hunt him! Oh,
																																																																																					    thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness, have mercy on
																																																																																					    this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that have no
																																																																																					    bowels to feel fear!


																																																																																					    CHAPTER 41. Moby Dick.

																																																																																					    I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts had gone up with the rest;
																																																																																					    my oath had been welded with theirs; and stronger I shouted, and more
																																																																																					    did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the dread in my soul. A
																																																																																					    wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab’s quenchless feud
																																																																																					    seemed mine. With greedyw out of the very body of all surprising
																																																																																					    terrible events,—as the smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in
																																																																																					    maritime life, far more than in that of terra firma, wild rumors
																																																																																					    abound, wherever there is any adequate reality for them to cling to.
																																																																																					    And as the sea surpasses the land in this matter, so the whale fishery
																																																																																					    surpasses every other sort of maritime life, in the wonderfulness and
																																																																																					    fearfulness of the rumors which sometimes circulate there. For not only
																																																																																					    are whalemen as a body unexempt from that ignorance and
																																																																																					    superstitiousness hereditary to all sailors; but of all sailors, they
																																																																																					    are by all odds the most directly brought into contact with whatever is
																																																																																					    appallingly astonishing in the sea; face to face they not only eye its
																																																																																					    greatest marvels, but, hand to jaw, give battle to them. Alone, in such
																																																																																					    remotest waters, that though you sailed a thousand miles, and passed a
																																																																																					    thousand shores, you would not come to any chiseled hearth-stone, or
																																																																																					    aught hospitable beneath that part of the sun; in such latitudes and
																																																																																					    longitudes, pursuing too such a calling as he does, the whaleman is
																																																																																					    wrapped by influences all tending to make his fancy pregnant with many
																																																																																					    a mighty birth.

																																																																																					    No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere transit over
																																																																																					    the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale did in
																																																																																					    the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints, and
																																																																																					    half-formed fœtal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which
																																																																																					    eventually invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything
																																																																																					    that visibly appears. So that in many cases such a panic didnd daring
																																																																																					    warfare; such men protesting that although other leviathans might be
																																																																																					    hopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at such an apparition
																																																																																					    as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man. That to attempt it, would be
																																																																																					    inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity. On this head, there are
																																																																																					    some remarkable documents that may be consulted.

																																																																																					    Nevertheless, some there were, who even in the face of these things
																																																																																					    were ready to give chase to Moby Dick; and a still greater number who,
																																																																																					    chancing only to hear of him distantly and vaguely, without the
																																																																																					    specific details of any certain calamity, and without superstitious
																																																																																					    accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee from the battle if
																																																																																					    offered.

																																																																																					    One of the wild suggestions referred to, as at last coming to be linked
																																																																																					    with the White Whale in the minds of the superstitiously inclined, was
																																																																																					    the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was ubiquitous; that he had
																																																																																					    actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and the same
																																																																																					    instant of time.

																																																																																					    Nor, credulous as such minds must have been, was this conceit
																																																																																					    altogether without some faint show of superstitious probability. For as
																																																																																					    the secrets of the currents in the seas have never yet been divulged,
																																																																																					    even to the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the Sperm
																																																																																					    Whale when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to
																																																																																					    his pursuers; and from time to time have originated the mostified by
																																																																																					    his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon through a dark blue
																																																																																					    sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all spangled with golden
																																																																																					    gleamings.

																																																																																					    Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his remarkable hue, nor yet his
																																																																																					    deformed lower jaw, that so much invested the whale with natural
																																																																																					    terror, as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which, according to
																																																																																					    specific accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his assaults.
																																																																																					    More than all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than
																																																																																					    perhaps aught else. For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers,
																																																																																					    with every apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known
																																																																																					    to turn round suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their
																																																																																					    boats to splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.

																																																																																					    Already several fatalities had attended his chase. But though similar
																																																																																					    disasters, however little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual in
																																																																																					    the fishery; yet, in most instances, such seemed the White Whale’s
																																																																																					    infernal aforethought of ferocity, that every dismembering or death
																																																																																					    that he caused, was not wholly regarded as having been inflicted by an
																																																																																					    unintelligent agent.

																																																																																					    Judge, then, to what pitches of inflamed, distracted fury the minds of
																																																																																					    his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of chewed
																																																																																					    boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the
																																																																																					    white curds oterfusing, made him mad. That it was only then, on
																																																																																					    the homeward voyage, after the encounter, that the final monomania
																																																																																					    seized him, seems all but certain from the fact that, at intervals
																																																																																					    during the passage, he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed of a
																																																																																					    leg, yet such vital strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was
																																																																																					    moreover intensified by his delirium, that his mates were forced to
																																																																																					    lace him fast, even there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock. In a
																																																																																					    strait-jacket, he swung to the mad rockings of the gales. And, when
																																																																																					    running into more sufferable latitudes, the ship, with mild stun’sails
																																																																																					    spread, floated across the tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances,
																																																																																					    the old man’s delirium seemed left behind him with the Cape Horn
																																																																																					    swells, and he came forth from his dark den into the blessed light and
																																																																																					    air; even then, when he bore that firm, collected front, however pale,
																																																																																					    and issued his calm orders once again; and his mates thanked God the
																																																																																					    direful madness was now gone; even then, Ahab, in his hidden self,
																																																																																					    raved on. Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most feline thing.
																																																																																					    When you think it fled, it may have but become transfigured into some
																																																																																					    still subtler form. Ahab’s full lunacy subsided not, but deepeningly
																																																																																					    contracted; like the unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman flows
																																																																																					    narrowly, but unfathomably through the Highland gorge. But, as in his
																																																																																					    narrow-flh the infixed, unrelenting fangs of some incurable
																																																																																					    idea; such an one, could he be found, would seem the very man to dart
																																																																																					    his iron and lift his lance against the most appalling of all brutes.
																																																																																					    Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally incapacitated for that,
																																																																																					    yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to cheer and howl on
																																																																																					    his underlings to the attack. But be all this as it may, certain it is,
																																																																																					    that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in
																																																																																					    him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one
																																																																																					    only and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale. Had any one
																																																																																					    of his old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking
																																																																																					    in him then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have
																																																																																					    wrenched the ship from such a fiendish man! They were bent on
																																																																																					    profitable cruises, the profit to be counted down in dollars from the
																																																																																					    mint. He was intent on an audacious, immitigable, and supernatural
																																																																																					    revenge.

																																																																																					    Here, then, was this grey-headed, ungodly old man, chasing with curses
																																																																																					    a Job’s whale round the world, at the head of a crew, too, chiefly made
																																																																																					    up of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and cannibals—morally enfeebled
																																																																																					    also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right-mindedness in
																																																																																					    Starbuck, the invulnerable jollity of indifference and recklessness in
																																																																																					    Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask. Such a crew,  day; and
																																																																																					    though in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this same hue is
																																																																																					    made the emblem of many touching, noble things—the innocence of brides,
																																																																																					    the benignity of age; though among the Red Men of America the giving of
																																																																																					    the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honor; though in
																																																																																					    many climes, whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of
																																																																																					    the Judge, and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn
																																																																																					    by milk-white steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most
																																																																																					    august religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness
																																																																																					    and power; by the Persian fire worshippers, the white forked flame
																																																																																					    being held the holiest on the altar; and in the Greek mythologies,
																																																																																					    Great Jove himself being made incarnate in a snow-white bull; and
																																																																																					    though to the noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice of the sacred
																																																																																					    White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology, that
																																																																																					    spotless, faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send
																																																																																					    to the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and
																																																																																					    though directly from the Latin word for white, all Christian priests
																																																																																					    derive the name of one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic,
																																																																																					    worn beneath the cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish
																																																																																					    faith, white is specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of
																																																																																					    our Lord; though in the Vision of St. John, white robes are given to
																																																																																					    the redeemed, and the four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white
																																																																																					    before the great white throne, and the Holy One that sitteth there
																																																																																					    white like wool; yet for all these accumulated associations, with
																																																																																					    whatever is sweet, and hondeck; and there, dashed upon the
																																																																																					    main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and
																																																																																					    with a hooked, Roman bill sublime. At intervals, it arched forth its
																																																																																					    vast archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark. Wondrous
																																																																																					    flutterings and throbbings shook it. Though bodily unharmed, it uttered
																																																																																					    cries, as some king’s ghost in supernatural distress. Through its
																																																																																					    inexpressible, strange eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took
																																																																																					    hold of God. As Abraham before the angels, I bowed myself; the white
																																																																																					    thing was so white, its wings so wide, and in those for ever exiled
																																																																																					    waters, I had lost the miserable warping memories of traditions and of
																																																																																					    towns. Long I gazed at that prodigy of plumage. I cannot tell, can only
																																																																																					    hint, the things that darted through me then. But at last I awoke; and
																																																																																					    turning, asked a sailor what bird was this. A goney, he replied. Goney!
																																																																																					    never had heard that name before; is it conceivable that this glorious
																																																																																					    thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! never! But some time after, I
																																																																																					    learned that goney was some seaman’s name for albatross. So that by no
																																																																																					    possibility could Coleridge’s wild Rhyme have had aught to do with
																																																																																					    those mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw that bird upon
																																																																																					    our deck. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to
																																																																																					    be an albatross. Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly burnish a
																																																																																					    little brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.

																																																																																					    I assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird
																																																																																					    chiefly lurks the sehed by his own kith and kin! It is
																																																																																					    that whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name he
																																																																																					    bears. The Albino is as well made as other men—has no substantive
																																																																																					    deformity—and yet this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him
																																																																																					    more strangely hideous than the ugliest abortion. Why should this be
																																																																																					    so?

																																																																																					    Nor, in quite other aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but not
																																																																																					    the less malicious agencies, fail to enlist among her forces this
																																																																																					    crowning attribute of the terrible. From its snowy aspect, the
																																																																																					    gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas has been denominated the White
																																																																																					    Squall. Nor, in some historic instances, has the art of human malice
																																																																																					    omitted so potent an auxiliary. How wildly it heightens the effect of
																																																																																					    that passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy symbol of their
																																																																																					    faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their bailiff in the
																																																																																					    market-place!

																																																																																					    Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary experience of all
																																																																																					    mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this hue. It
																																																																																					    cannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of
																																																																																					    the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering
																																																																																					    there; as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of
																																																																																					    consternation in the other world, as of mortal trepidation here. And
																																																																																					    from that pallor of the dead, we borrow the expressive hue of the
																																																																																					    shroud in which we wrap them. Nor even in our superstitions do we fail
																																																																																					    to throw the same snowy mantle round our phantoms; all ghosts rising in
																																																																																					    a milk-white fog—Yea, while these terrors seize us, let us add, that
																																																																																					    esubstantial instance, purely addressed to the fancy, why, in
																																																																																					    reading the old fairy tales of Central Europe, does “the tall pale man”
																																																																																					    of the Hartz forests, whose changeless pallor unrustlingly glides
																																																																																					    through the green of the groves—why is this phantom more terrible than
																																																																																					    all the whooping imps of the Blocksburg?

																																																																																					    Nor is it, altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-toppling
																																																																																					    earthquakes; nor the stampedoes of her frantic seas; nor the
																																																																																					    tearlessness of arid skies that never rain; nor the sight of her wide
																																																																																					    field of leaning spires, wrenched cope-stones, and crosses all adroop
																																																																																					    (like canted yards of anchored fleets); and her suburban avenues of
																																																																																					    house-walls lying over upon each other, as a tossed pack of cards;—it
																																																																																					    is not these things alone which make tearless Lima, the strangest,
																																																																																					    saddest city thou can’st see. For Lima has taken the white veil; and
																																																																																					    there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe. Old as Pizarro,
																																																																																					    this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the cheerful
																																																																																					    greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the rigid
																																																																																					    pallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions.

																																																																																					    I know that, to the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness
																																																																																					    is not confessed to be the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of
																																																																																					    objects otherwise terrible; nor to the unimagrience of former perils; for what knows he, this New England colt,
																																																																																					    of the black bisons of distant Oregon?

																																																																																					    No: but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the instinct of the
																																																																																					    knowledge of the demonism in the world. Though thousands of miles from
																																																																																					    Oregon, still when he smells that savage musk, the rending, goring
																																																																																					    bison herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of the
																																																																																					    prairies, which this instant they may be trampling into dust.

																																																																																					    Thus, then, the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings of
																																																																																					    the festooned frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the
																																																																																					    windrowed snows of prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking
																																																																																					    of that buffalo robe to the frightened colt!

																																																																																					    Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of which the mystic
																																																																																					    sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt, somewhere
																																																																																					    those things must exist. Though in many of its aspects this visible
																																																																																					    world seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in
																																																																																					    fright.

																																																																																					    But not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and
																																																																																					    learned why it appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange
																																																																																					    and far more portentous—why, as we have seen, it is at once the most
																																																																																					    meaning symbol of spiritual things, nay, the very veil of the
																																																																																					    Christian’s Deity; and yet should be as it is, the intensifying agent
																																																																																					    in things the most appalling to mankind.

																																																																																					    Is it that by its inde is!—it sounds like two or three sleepers turning
																																																																																					    over, now!”

																																																																																					    “Caramba! have done, shipmate, will ye? It’s the three soaked biscuits
																																																																																					    ye eat for supper turning over inside of ye—nothing else. Look to the
																																																																																					    bucket!”

																																																																																					    “Say what ye will, shipmate; I’ve sharp ears.”

																																																																																					    “Aye, you are the chap, ain’t ye, that heard the hum of the old
																																																																																					    Quakeress’s knitting-needles fifty miles at sea from Nantucket; you’re
																																																																																					    the chap.”

																																																																																					    “Grin away; we’ll see what turns up. Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody
																																																																																					    down in the after-hold that has not yet been seen on deck; and I
																																																																																					    suspect our old Mogul knows something of it too. I heard Stubb tell
																																																																																					    Flask, one morning watch, that there was something of that sort in the
																																																																																					    wind.”

																																																																																					    “Tish! the bucket!”


																																																																																					    CHAPTER 44. The Chart.

																																																																																					    Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his cabin after the squall that
																																																																																					    took place on the night succeeding that wild ratification of his
																																																																																					    purpose with his crew, you would have seen him go to a locker in the
																																																																																					    transom, and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish sea
																																																																																					    charts, spread them before him on his screwed-down table. Then seating
																																																																																					    himself before it, you would have seen him intently study the various
																																																																																					    lines and shadings which there meen spent in each month in every district, and the two others to
																																																																																					      show the number of days in which whales, sperm or right, have been
																																																																																					        seen.”




																																																																																						Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to another, the
																																																																																						sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct—say, rather, secret
																																																																																						intelligence from the Deity—mostly swim in _veins_, as they are called;
																																																																																						continuing their way along a given ocean-line with such undeviating
																																																																																						exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any chart, with one
																																																																																						tithe of such marvellous precision. Though, in these cases, the
																																																																																						direction taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor’s parallel,
																																																																																						and though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own
																																																																																						unavoidable, straight wake, yet the arbitrary _vein_ in which at these
																																																																																						times he is said to swim, generally embraces some few miles in width
																																																																																						(more or less, as the vein is presumed to expand or contract); but
																																																																																						never exceeds the visual sweep from the whale-ship’s mast-heads, when
																																																																																						circumspectly gliding along this magic zone. The sum is, that at
																																																																																						particular seasons within that breadth and along that path, migrating
																																																																																						whales may with great confidence be looked for.

																																																																																						And hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate
																																																																																						feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing
																																																																																						the widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his
																																																																																						able her
																																																																																						commander to make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and
																																																																																						then running down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial
																																																																																						Pacific in time to cruise there. Therefore, he must wait for the next
																																																																																						ensuing season. Yet the premature hour of the Pequod’s sailing had,
																																																																																						perhaps, been correctly selected by Ahab, with a view to this very
																																																																																						complexion of things. Because, an interval of three hundred and
																																																																																						sixty-five days and nights was before him; an interval which, instead
																																																																																						of impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt;
																																																																																						if by chance the White Whale, spending his vacation in seas far remote
																																																																																						from his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his wrinkled brow
																																																																																						off the Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or in any
																																																																																						other waters haunted by his race. So that Monsoons, Pampas,
																																																																																						Nor’-Westers, Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoon,
																																																																																						might blow Moby Dick into the devious zig-zag world-circle of the
																																																																																						Pequod’s circumnavigating wake.

																																																																																						But granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it
																																																																																						not but a mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one
																																																																																						solitary whale, even if encountered, should be thought capable of
																																																																																						individual recognition from his hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti
																																																																																						in the thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople? Yes. For the peculiar
																																																																																						snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and at seemed Ahab rushed from his room,
																																																																																						was for the time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambulistic being,
																																																																																						a ray of living light, to be sure, but without an object to colour, and
																																																																																						therefore a blankness in itself. God help thee, old man, thy thoughts
																																																																																						have created a creature in thee; and he whose intense thinking thus
																																																																																						makes him a Prometheus; a vulture feeds upon that heart for ever; that
																																																																																						vulture the very creature he creates.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 45. The Affidavit.

																																																																																						So far as what there may be of a narrative in this book; and, indeed,
																																																																																						as indirectly touching one or two very interesting and curious
																																																																																						particulars in the habits of sperm whales, the foregoing chapter, in
																																																																																						its earlier part, is as important a one as will be found in this
																																																																																						volume; but the leading matter of it requires to be still further and
																																																																																						more familiarly enlarged upon, in order to be adequately understood,
																																																																																						and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound ignorance of
																																																																																						the entire subject may induce in some minds, as to the natural verity
																																																																																						of the main points of this affair.

																																																																																						I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall be
																																																																																						content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of
																																																																																						items, practically imate acquaintance. Like some
																																																																																						poor devils ashore that happen to know an irascible great man, they
																																																																																						make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the street, lest if they
																																																																																						pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a summary thump
																																																																																						for their presumption.

																																																																																						But not only did each of these famous whales enjoy great individual
																																																																																						celebrity—Nay, you may call it an ocean-wide renown; not only was he
																																																																																						famous in life and now is immortal in forecastle stories after death,
																																																																																						but he was admitted into all the rights, privileges, and distinctions
																																																																																						of a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Cæsar. Was it not
																																																																																						so, O Timor Tom! thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg, who so
																																																																																						long did’st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was
																																																																																						oft seen from the palmy beach of Ombay? Was it not so, O New Zealand
																																																																																						Jack! thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the
																																																																																						vicinity of the Tattoo Land? Was it not so, O Morquan! King of Japan,
																																																																																						whose lofty jet they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white
																																																																																						cross against the sky? Was it not so, O Don Miguel! thou Chilian whale,
																																																																																						marked like an old tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back! In
																																																																																						plain prose, heo more idea of
																																																																																						being facetious than Moses, when he wrote the history of the plagues of
																																																																																						Egypt.

																																																																																						But fortunately the special point I here seek can be established upon
																																																																																						testimony entirely independent of my own. That point is this: The Sperm
																																																																																						Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful, knowing, and judiciously
																																																																																						malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in, utterly destroy,
																																																																																						and sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale _has_ done it.

																																																																																						First: In the year 1820 the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of Nantucket,
																																																																																						was cruising in the Pacific Ocean. One day she saw spouts, lowered her
																																																																																						boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales. Ere long, several of
																																																																																						the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale escaping
																																																																																						from the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon the
																																																																																						ship. Dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that
																																																																																						in less than “ten minutes” she settled down and fell over. Not a
																																																																																						surviving plank of her has been seen since. After the severest
																																																																																						exposure, part of the crew reached the land in their boats. Being
																																																																																						returned home at last, Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific
																																																																																						in command of another ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again upon
																																																																																						unknown rocks and breakers; for the second time his ship was utterly
																																																																																						lost, and forthwith forswearing the sea, he has never tempted it since.
																																																																																						At this day Captain Pollard isf-war as to cause her to leak so much as a thimbleful. Very
																																																																																						good; but there is more coming. Some weeks after, the Commodore set
																																																																																						sail in this impregnable craft for Valparaiso. But he was stopped on
																																																																																						the way by a portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments’
																																																																																						confidential business with him. That business consisted in fetching the
																																																																																						Commodore’s craft such a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made
																																																																																						straight for the nearest port to heave down and repair. I am not
																																																																																						superstitious, but I consider the Commodore’s interview with that whale
																																																																																						as providential. Was not Saul of Tarsus converted from unbelief by a
																																																																																						similar fright? I tell you, the sperm whale will stand no nonsense.

																																																																																						I will now refer you to Langsdorff’s Voyages for a little circumstance
																																																																																						in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof. Langsdorff, you
																																																																																						must know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern’s
																																																																																						famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century.
																																																																																						Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter:

																																																																																						“By the thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next day
																																																																																						we were out in the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh. The weather was
																																																																																						very clear and fine, but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to
																																																																																						keep on our fur clothing. For some days we had very little wind; it was
																																																																																						not hquake, somewhere about that time, did actually do great mischief
																																																																																						along the Spanish land. But I should not much wonder if, in the
																																																																																						darkness of that early hour of the morning, the shock was after all
																																																																																						caused by an unseen whale vertically bumping the hull from beneath.

																																																																																						I might proceed with several more examples, one way or another known to
																																																																																						me, of the great power and malice at times of the sperm whale. In more
																																																																																						than one instance, he has been known, not only to chase the assailing
																																																																																						boats back to their ships, but to pursue the ship itself, and long
																																																																																						withstand all the lances hurled at him from its decks. The English ship
																																																																																						Pusie Hall can tell a story on that head; and, as for his strength, let
																																																																																						me say, that there have been examples where the lines attached to a
																																																																																						running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and
																																																																																						secured there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as a
																																																																																						horse walks off with a cart. Again, it is very often observed that, if
																																																																																						the sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts,
																																																																																						not so often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of
																																																																																						destruction to his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquent
																																																																																						indication of his character, that upon being attacked he will
																																																																																						frequently open hnster, that for
																																																																																						half a century stove the ships of a Roman Emperor, must in all
																																																																																						probability have been a sperm whale.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 46. Surmises.

																																																																																						Though, consumed with the hot fire of his purpose, Ahab in all his
																																																																																						thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate capture of Moby
																																																																																						Dick; though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal interests to that
																																																																																						one passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by nature and
																																																																																						long habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman’s ways, altogether
																																																																																						to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage. Or at least if
																																																																																						this were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more
																																																																																						influential with him. It would be refining too much, perhaps, even
																																																																																						considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards the
																																																																																						White Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all
																																																																																						sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he
																																																																																						multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would
																																																																																						prove to be the hated one he hunted. But if such an hypothesis be
																																																																																						indeed exceptionable, there were still additional considerations which,
																																																																																						though not so strictly according with the wildness of his ruling
																																																																																						passion, yet were by no means incapable of swaying him.

																																																																																						To accomplish his object Ahab must use tools; and of all tools used in
																																																																																						the shadow of the moon, men are most apt to get out of order. He knew,
																																																																																						for examng other pious
																																																																																						perquisites by the way. Had they been strictly held to their one final
																																																																																						and romantic object—that final and romantic object, too many would have
																																																																																						turned from in disgust. I will not strip these men, thought Ahab, of
																																																																																						all hopes of cash—aye, cash. They may scorn cash now; but let some
																																																																																						months go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this
																																																																																						same quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash would
																																																																																						soon cashier Ahab.

																																																																																						Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more related
																																																																																						to Ahab personally. Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps
																																																																																						somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the
																																																																																						Pequod’s voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing, he
																																																																																						had indirectly laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of
																																																																																						usurpation; and with perfect impunity, both moral and legal, his crew
																																																																																						if so disposed, and to that end competent, could refuse all further
																																																																																						obedience to him, and even violently wrest from him the command. From
																																																																																						even the barely hinted imputation of usurpation, and the possible
																																																																																						consequences of such a suppressed impression gaining ground, Ahab must
																																																																																						of course have been most anxious to protect himself. That protection
																																																																																						could only consist in his own predominating vibration, indeed, only tending
																																																																																						to that; free will still free to ply her shuttle between given threads;
																																																																																						and chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of
																																																																																						necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though
																																																																																						thus prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the
																																																																																						last featuring blow at events.

																																																																																						Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started at a sound so
																																																																																						strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the ball of
																																																																																						free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds
																																																																																						whence that voice dropped like a wing. High aloft in the cross-trees
																																																																																						was that mad Gay-Header, Tashtego. His body was reaching eagerly
																																																																																						forward, his hand stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden
																																																																																						intervals he continued his cries. To be sure the same sound was that
																																																																																						very moment perhaps being heard all over the seas, from hundreds of
																																																																																						whalemen’s look-outs perched as high in the air; but from few of those
																																																																																						lungs could that accustomed old cry have derived such a marvellous
																																																																																						cadence as from Tashtego the Indian’s.

																																																																																						As he stood hovering over you half suspended in air, so wildly and
																																																																																						eagerly peering towards the horizon, you would have thought him some
																																																																																						prophet or seer beholding the shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries
																																																																																						announcing their coming.

																																																																																						“There she blows! there! there! there! she blows! she blows!”

																																																																																						“Where-away?”

																																																																																						“On the lee-beam, about two miles off! a school of them!”

																																																																																						Instantly all was commotion.

																																																																																						The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the same undeviating and
																																																																																						relithis figure were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion
																																																																																						peculiar to some of the aboriginal natives of the Manillas;—a race
																																																																																						notorious for a certain diabolism of subtilty, and by some honest white
																																																																																						mariners supposed to be the paid spies and secret confidential agents
																																																																																						on the water of the devil, their lord, whose counting-room they suppose
																																																																																						to be elsewhere.

																																																																																						While yet the wondering ship’s company were gazing upon these
																																																																																						strangers, Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head,
																																																																																						“All ready there, Fedallah?”

																																																																																						“Ready,” was the half-hissed reply.

																																																																																						“Lower away then; d’ye hear?” shouting across the deck. “Lower away
																																																																																						there, I say.”

																																																																																						Such was the thunder of his voice, that spite of their amazement the
																																																																																						men sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled round in the blocks; with
																																																																																						a wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea; while, with a
																																																																																						dexterous, off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation, the
																																																																																						sailors, goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship’s side into the tossed
																																																																																						boats below.

																																																																																						Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship’s lee, when a fourth
																																																																																						keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern, and
																																																																																						showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the
																																																																																						stern, loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselves
																																																																																						widely, so as to cover a large expanse of water. But with all theid hear
																																																																																						such queer invocations without pulling for dear life, and yet pulling
																																																																																						for the mere joke of the thing. Besides he all the time looked so easy
																																																																																						and indolent himself, so loungingly managed his steering-oar, and so
																																																																																						broadly gaped—open-mouthed at times—that the mere sight of such a
																																																																																						yawning commander, by sheer force of contrast, acted like a charm upon
																																																																																						the crew. Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists,
																																																																																						whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put all
																																																																																						inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them.

																																																																																						In obedience to a sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely
																																																																																						across Stubb’s bow; and when for a minute or so the two boats were
																																																																																						pretty near to each other, Stubb hailed the mate.

																																																																																						“Mr. Starbuck! larboard boat there, ahoy! a word with ye, sir, if ye
																																																																																						please!”

																																																																																						“Halloa!” returned Starbuck, turning round not a single inch as he
																																																																																						spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face set
																																																																																						like a flint from Stubb’s.

																																																																																						“What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!”

																																																																																						“Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong,
																																																																																						boys!)” in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: “A sad
																																																																																						business, Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind,
																																																																																						Mr. Stubb, all for the best. Let all your crew pull strong, come what
																																																																																						will. (Spring, my men, spring!) There’s hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr.
																																																																																						Stubb, and that’s settled bodily
																																																																																						down into the blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the
																																																																																						movement, though from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.

																																																																																						“Every man look out along his oars!” cried Starbuck. “Thou, Queequeg,
																																																																																						stand up!”

																																																																																						Nimbly springing up on the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage
																																																																																						stood erect there, and with intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the
																																																																																						spot where the chase had last been descried. Likewise upon the extreme
																																																																																						stern of the boat where it was also triangularly platformed level with
																																																																																						the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen coolly and adroitly balancing
																																																																																						himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a craft, and silently
																																																																																						eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea.

																																																																																						Not very far distant Flask’s boat was also lying breathlessly still;
																																																																																						its commander recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a
																																																																																						stout sort of post rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above
																																																																																						the level of the stern platform. It is used for catching turns with the
																																																																																						whale line. Its top is not more spacious than the palm of a man’s hand,
																																																																																						and standing upon such a base as that, Flask seemed perched at the
																																																																																						mast-head of some ship which had sunk to all but her trucks. But little
																																																																																						King-Post was small and short, and at the same time little King-Post
																																																																																						was full of a large and tall ambition, so thatment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white
																																																																																						water, and thin scattered puffs of vapor hovering over it, and
																																																																																						suffusingly blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from white
																																																																																						rolling billows. The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it
																																																																																						were, like the air over intensely heated plates of iron. Beneath this
																																																																																						atmospheric waving and curling, and partially beneath a thin layer of
																																																																																						water, also, the whales were swimming. Seen in advance of all the other
																																																																																						indications, the puffs of vapor they spouted, seemed their forerunning
																																																																																						couriers and detached flying outriders.

																																																																																						All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled
																																																																																						water and air. But it bade fair to outstrip them; it flew on and on, as
																																																																																						a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the
																																																																																						hills.

																																																																																						“Pull, pull, my good boys,” said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but
																																																																																						intensest concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance
																																																																																						from his eyes darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two
																																																																																						visible needles in two unerring binnacle compasses. He did not say much
																																																																																						to his crew, though, nor did his crew say anything to him. Only the
																																																																																						silence of the boat was at intervals startlingly pierced by one of his
																																																																																						peculiar whispers, now harsh with comth the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, and
																																																																																						the shuddering gasps of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the
																																																																																						ivory Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like
																																																																																						a wild hen after her screaming brood;—all this was thrilling.

																																																																																						Not the raw recruit, marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever
																																																																																						heat of his first battle; not the dead man’s ghost encountering the
																																																																																						first unknown phantom in the other world;—neither of these can feel
																																																																																						stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first
																																																																																						time finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of the
																																																																																						hunted sperm whale.

																																																																																						The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and
																																																																																						more visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadows
																																																																																						flung upon the sea. The jets of vapor no longer blended, but tilted
																																																																																						everywhere to right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes.
																																																																																						The boats were pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales
																																																																																						running dead to leeward. Our sail was now set, and, with the still
																																																																																						rising wind, we rushed along; the boat going with such madness through
																																																																																						the water, that the lee oars could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to
																																																																																						escape being torn from the row-locks.

																																																																																						Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist; neither
																																																																																						ship nor boat to be seen.

																																																																																						“Give way, men,” whispered Starbuck, drawing still fuhope. There, then, he sat, holding up
																																																																																						that imbecile candle in the heart of that almighty forlornness. There,
																																																																																						then, he sat, the sign and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly
																																																																																						holding up hope in the midst of despair.

																																																																																						Wet, drenched through, and shivering cold, despairing of ship or boat,
																																																																																						we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on. The mist still spread over
																																																																																						the sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat.
																																																																																						Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his ear.
																																																																																						We all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled
																																																																																						by the storm. The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were
																																																																																						dimly parted by a huge, vague form. Affrighted, we all sprang into the
																																																																																						sea as the ship at last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us
																																																																																						within a distance of not much more than its length.

																																																																																						Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as for one instant it
																																																																																						tossed and gaped beneath the ship’s bows like a chip at the base of a
																																																																																						cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was seen no
																																																																																						more till it came up weltering astern. Again we swam for it, were
																																																																																						dashed against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely
																																																																																						landed on board. Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut
																																																																																						loose from their fish and returned to the ship in good time. The ship
																																																																																						had given us up, but was still cruising, if haply it might light uponthree impartial witnesses, I had a deliberate statement
																																																																																						of the entire case. Considering, therefore, that squalls and capsizings
																																																																																						in the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters of
																																																																																						common occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at the
																																																																																						superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign
																																																																																						my life into the hands of him who steered the boat—oftentimes a fellow
																																																																																						who at that very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of
																																																																																						scuttling the craft with his own frantic stampings; considering that
																																																																																						the particular disaster to our own particular boat was chiefly to be
																																																																																						imputed to Starbuck’s driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a
																																																																																						squall, and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for
																																																																																						his great heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to
																																																																																						this uncommonly prudent Starbuck’s boat; and finally considering in
																																																																																						what a devil’s chase I was implicated, touching the White Whale: taking
																																																																																						all things together, I say, I thought I might as well go below and make
																																																																																						a rough draft of my will. “Queequeg,” said I, “come along, you shall be
																																																																																						my lawyer, executor, and legatee.”

																																																																																						It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at
																																																																																						their last wills and testaevertheless he had taken private measures of his own touching all that
																																																																																						matter. Until Cabaco’s published discovery, the sailors had little
																																																																																						foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little while out of
																																																																																						port, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting the
																																																																																						whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then
																																																																																						found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his
																																																																																						own hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even
																																																																																						solicitously cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the line is
																																																																																						running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was
																																																																																						observed in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra
																																																																																						coat of sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better
																																																																																						withstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety
																																																																																						he evinced in exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it
																																																																																						is sometimes called, the horizontal piece in the boat’s bow for bracing
																																																																																						the knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was
																																																																																						observed how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee
																																																																																						fixed in the semi-circular depression in the cleat, and with the
																																																																																						carpenter’s chisel gouged out a little here and straightened it a
																																																																																						little there; all these things, I say, had awakened much interest and
																																																																																						ng through these latter waters that one serene and
																																																																																						moonlight night, when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver;
																																																																																						and, by their soft, suffusing seethings, made what seemed a silvery
																																																																																						silence, not a solitude; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen
																																																																																						far in advance of the white bubbles at the bow. Lit up by the moon, it
																																																																																						looked celestial; seemed some plumed and glittering god uprising from
																																																																																						the sea. Fedallah first descried this jet. For of these moonlight
																																																																																						nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head, and stand a
																																																																																						look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day. And yet,
																																																																																						though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman in a
																																																																																						hundred would venture a lowering for them. You may think with what
																																																																																						emotions, then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at
																																																																																						such unusual hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky. But
																																																																																						when, after spending his uniform interval there for several successive
																																																																																						nights without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence,
																																																																																						his unearthly voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet,
																																																																																						every reclining mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit
																																																																																						had lighted in the rigging, and hailed the mortal crew. “There she
																																																																																						blows!” Had the trump of judgment blown, they could not have quivered
																																																																																						more; yet still thed days we voyaged along, through seas so
																																																																																						wearily, lonesomely mild, that all space, in repugnance to our vengeful
																																																																																						errand, seemed vacating itself of life before our urn-like prow.

																																																																																						But, at last, when turning to the eastward, the Cape winds began
																																																																																						howling around us, and we rose and fell upon the long, troubled seas
																																																																																						that are there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to the
																																																																																						blast, and gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of
																																																																																						silver chips, the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this
																																																																																						desolate vacuity of life went away, but gave place to sights more
																																																																																						dismal than before.

																																																																																						Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither
																																																																																						before us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens. And
																																																																																						every morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and
																																																																																						spite of our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp,
																																																																																						as though they deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a
																																																																																						thing appointed to desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for
																																																																																						their homeless selves. And heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved
																																																																																						the black sea, as if its vast tides were a conscience; and the great
																																																																																						mundane soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering
																																																																																						it had bred.

																																																																																						Cape of Gible old man! thought Starbuck with a shudder, sleeping in this
																																																																																						gale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 52. The Albatross.

																																																																																						South-eastward from the Cape, off the distant Crozetts, a good cruising
																																																																																						ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed ahead, the Goney (Albatross)
																																																																																						by name. As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty perch at the
																																																																																						fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to a tyro
																																																																																						in the far ocean fisheries—a whaler at sea, and long absent from home.

																																																																																						As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the
																																																																																						skeleton of a stranded walrus. All down her sides, this spectral
																																																																																						appearance was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all
																																																																																						her spars and her rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred
																																																																																						over with hoar-frost. Only her lower sails were set. A wild sight it
																																																																																						was to see her long-bearded look-outs at those three mast-heads. They
																																																																																						seemed clad in the skins of beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment
																																																																																						that had survived nearly four years of cruising. Standing in iron hoops
																																																																																						nailed to the mast, they swayed and swung over a fathomless sea; and
																																																																																						though, when the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men
																																																																																						in the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped
																																																																																						from the mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those
																																																																																						forlorn-looking fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not
																																																																																						one word to our own look-outs, while the quarter-deck hails round globe, they
																																																																																						either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us whelmed.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 53. The Gam.

																																																																																						The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on board of the whaler we had
																																																																																						spoken was this: the wind and sea betokened storms. But even had this
																																																																																						not been the case, he would not after all, perhaps, have boarded
																																																																																						her—judging by his subsequent conduct on similar occasions—if so it had
																																																																																						been that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained a negative answer
																																																																																						to the question he put. For, as it eventually turned out, he cared not
																																																																																						to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain, except he
																																																																																						could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly sought. But
																																																																																						all this might remain inadequately estimated, were not something said
																																																																																						here of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when meeting each other
																																																																																						in foreign seas, and especially on a common cruising-ground.

																																																																																						If two strangers crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or the
																																																																																						equally desolate Salisbury Plain in England; if casually encountering
																																																																																						each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for the life of
																																																																																						them, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a moment
																																																																																						to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while and
																																																																																						resting in concert: then, how mand they are so. Whereas, some
																																																																																						merchant ships crossing each other’s wake in the mid-Atlantic, will
																																																																																						oftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition,
																																																																																						mutually cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandies
																																																																																						in Broadway; and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism
																																																																																						upon each other’s rig. As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet at
																																																																																						sea, they first go through such a string of silly bowings and
																																																																																						scrapings, such a ducking of ensigns, that there does not seem to be
																																																																																						much right-down hearty good-will and brotherly love about it at all. As
																																																																																						touching Slave-ships meeting, why, they are in such a prodigious hurry,
																																																																																						they run away from each other as soon as possible. And as for Pirates,
																																																																																						when they chance to cross each other’s cross-bones, the first hail
																																																																																						is—“How many skulls?”—the same way that whalers hail—“How many
																																																																																						barrels?” And that question once answered, pirates straightway steer
																																																																																						apart, for they are infernal villains on both sides, and don’t like to
																																																																																						see overmuch of each other’s villanous likenesses.

																																																																																						But look at the godly, honest, unostentatious, hospitable, sociable,
																																																																																						free-and-easy whaler! What does the whaler do when she meets another
																																																																																						whaler in any sort of decent weather? She has a “_Gam_,” a thing so
																																																																																						utterly unknown to all other ships that they never heard of the name
																																																																																						even; and if by chance they should hear of it, they only grin at it,
																																																																																						and repeat gamesome stuff about “spouters” and “blubbee to
																																																																																						the importance of sustaining his dignity by maintaining his legs. Nor
																																																																																						is this any very easy matter; for in his rear is the immense projecting
																																																																																						steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of his back, the
																																																																																						after-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front. He is thus
																																																																																						completely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself
																																																																																						sideways by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violent
																																																																																						pitch of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length of
																																																																																						foundation is nothing without corresponding breadth. Merely make a
																																																																																						spread angle of two poles, and you cannot stand them up. Then, again,
																																																																																						it would never do in plain sight of the world’s riveted eyes, it would
																																																																																						never do, I say, for this straddling captain to be seen steadying
																																																																																						himself the slightest particle by catching hold of anything with his
																																																																																						hands; indeed, as token of his entire, buoyant self-command, he
																																																																																						generally carries his hands in his trowsers’ pockets; but perhaps being
																																																																																						generally very large, heavy hands, he carries them there for ballast.
																																																																																						Nevertheless there have occurred instances, well authenticated ones
																																																																																						too, where the captain has been known for an uncommonly critical moment
																																																																																						or two, in a sudden squall say—to seize hold of the nearest oarsman’s
																																																																																						hair, and hold on there like grim death.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 54. The Town-Ho’s Story.

																																																																																						(_As told at the Golden Inn._)

																																																																																						The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is
																																																																																						much like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meet
																																																																																						more travellers than in any other part.

																																																																																						It was not very long after speaking the Goney that another
																																																																																						homeward-bound whaleman,er hold
																																																																																						than common. They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen. But
																																																																																						the captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good
																																																																																						luck awaited him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse to
																																																																																						quit them, and the leak not being then considered at all dangerous,
																																																																																						though, indeed, they could not find it after searching the hold as low
																																																																																						down as was possible in rather heavy weather, the ship still continued
																																																																																						her cruisings, the mariners working at the pumps at wide and easy
																																																																																						intervals; but no good luck came; more days went by, and not only was
																																																																																						the leak yet undiscovered, but it sensibly increased. So much so, that
																																																																																						now taking some alarm, the captain, making all sail, stood away for the
																																																																																						nearest harbor among the islands, there to have his hull hove out and
																																																																																						repaired.

																																																																																						“Though no small passage was before her, yet, if the commonest chance
																																																																																						favoured, he did not at all fear that his ship would founder by the
																																																																																						way, because his pumps were of the best, and being periodically
																																																																																						relieved at them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily keep the
																																																																																						ship free; never mind if the leak should double on her. In truth, well
																																																																																						nigh the whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous
																																																																																						breezes, the Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in pes. Yet
																																																																																						was this Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted traits; and this
																																																																																						Lakeman, a mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed, might yet by
																																																																																						inflexible firmness, only tempered by that common decency of human
																																																																																						recognition which is the meanest slave’s right; thus treated, this
																																																																																						Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile. At all events, he
																																																																																						had proved so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, and
																																																																																						Steelkilt—but, gentlemen, you shall hear.

																																																																																						“It was not more than a day or two at the furthest after pointing her
																																																																																						prow for her island haven, that the Town-Ho’s leak seemed again
																																																																																						increasing, but only so as to require an hour or more at the pumps
																																																																																						every day. You must know that in a settled and civilized ocean like our
																																																																																						Atlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping their
																																																																																						whole way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should the
																																																																																						officer of the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, the
																																																																																						probability would be that he and his shipmates would never again
																																																																																						remember it, on account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom.
																																																																																						Nor in the solitary and savage seas far from you to the westward,
																																																																																						gentlemen, is it altogether unusual for ships to keep clanging at their
																																																																																						pump-handles in full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length;
																																																																																						that is, if it lie along a tolerably rpenters, saw-fish, and file-fish, and what not; and the whole
																																																																																						posse of ’em are now hard at work cutting and slashing at the bottom;
																																																																																						making improvements, I suppose. If old Rad were here now, I’d tell him
																																																																																						to jump overboard and scatter ’em. They’re playing the devil with his
																																																																																						estate, I can tell him. But he’s a simple old soul,—Rad, and a beauty
																																																																																						too. Boys, they say the rest of his property is invested in
																																																																																						looking-glasses. I wonder if he’d give a poor devil like me the model
																																																																																						of his nose.’

																																																																																						“‘Damn your eyes! what’s that pump stopping for?’ roared Radney,
																																																																																						pretending not to have heard the sailors’ talk. ‘Thunder away at it!’

																																																																																						“‘Aye, aye, sir,’ said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket. ‘Lively, boys,
																																																																																						lively, now!’ And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines;
																																																																																						the men tossed their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping
																																																																																						of the lungs was heard which denotes the fullest tension of life’s
																																																																																						utmost energies.

																																																																																						“Quitting the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went
																																																																																						forward all panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face
																																																																																						fiery red, his eyes bloodshot, and wiping the prorbearance the sweating Steelkilt
																																																																																						could but ill brook this bearing in the mate; but somehow still
																																																																																						smothering the conflagration within him, without speaking he remained
																																																																																						doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the incensed Radney shook the
																																																																																						hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously commanding him to do
																																																																																						his bidding.

																																																																																						“Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating round the windlass, steadily
																																																																																						followed by the mate with his menacing hammer, deliberately repeated
																																																																																						his intention not to obey. Seeing, however, that his forbearance had
																																																																																						not the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable intimation with
																																																																																						his twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man; but it
																																																																																						was to no purpose. And in this way the two went once slowly round the
																																																																																						windlass; when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him
																																																																																						that he had now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the
																																																																																						Lakeman paused on the hatches and thus spoke to the officer:

																																																																																						“‘Mr. Radney, I will not obey you. Take that hammer away, or look to
																																																																																						yourself.’ But the predestinated mate coming still closer to him, where
																																																																																						the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the heavy hammer within an inch of
																																																																																						his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of insufferable maledictions.
																																																																																						Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch; stabbing him in the eye
																																																																																						with the unflinching poniard of his glance, Steelkilt, clenching his
																																																																																						right handerb all along this coast—“Corrupt as Lima.”
																																																																																						It but bears out your saying, too; churches more plentiful than
																																																																																						billiard-tables, and for ever open—and “Corrupt as Lima.” So, too,
																																																																																						Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist, St.
																																																																																						Mark!—St. Dominic, purge it! Your cup! Thanks: here I refill; now, you
																																																																																						pour out again.’

																																																																																						“Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the Canaller would
																																																																																						make a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely wicked is
																																																																																						he. Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed, flowery
																																																																																						Nile, he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked
																																																																																						Cleopatra, ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck. But ashore,
																																																																																						all this effeminacy is dashed. The brigandish guise which the Canaller
																																																																																						so proudly sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his
																																																																																						grand features. A terror to the smiling innocence of the villages
																																																																																						through which he floats; his swart visage and bold swagger are not
																																																																																						unshunned in cities. Once a vagabond on his own canal, I have received
																																																																																						good turns from one of these Canallers; I thank him heartily; would
																																																																																						fain be not ungrateful; but it is often one of the prime redeeming
																																																																																						qualities of your man of violence, that at times he has as stiff an arm
																																																																																						to back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthied Steelkilt. ‘Aye, let her sink. Not a man of us
																																																																																						turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us. What
																																																																																						say ye, men?’ turning to his comrades. A fierce cheer was their
																																																																																						response.

																																																																																						“The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping his eye
																																																																																						on the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these:—‘It’s not our
																																																																																						fault; we didn’t want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was
																																																																																						boy’s business; he might have known me before this; I told him not to
																																																																																						prick the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his
																																																																																						cursed jaw; ain’t those mincing knives down in the forecastle there,
																																																																																						men? look to those handspikes, my hearties. Captain, by God, look to
																																																																																						yourself; say the word; don’t be a fool; forget it all; we are ready to
																																																																																						turn to; treat us decently, and we’re your men; but we won’t be
																																																																																						flogged.’

																																																																																						“‘Turn to! I make no promises, turn to, I say!’

																																																																																						“‘Look ye, now,’ cried the Lakeman, flinging out his arm towards him,
																																																																																						‘there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who have shipped for
																																																																																						the cruise, d’ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can claim our
																																																																																						discharge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don’t want a row; it’s
																																																																																						not our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we
																																																																																						welkilt.

																																																																																						“‘Oh certainly,’ said the Captain, and the key clicked.

																																																																																						“It was at this point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection of
																																																																																						seven of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that had
																																																																																						last hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place as
																																																																																						black as the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to
																																																																																						the two Canallers, thus far apparently of one mind with him, to burst
																																																																																						out of their hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed with
																																																																																						their keen mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with a
																																																																																						handle at each end) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and if
																																																																																						by any devilishness of desperation possible, seize the ship. For
																																																																																						himself, he would do this, he said, whether they joined him or not.
																																																																																						That was the last night he should spend in that den. But the scheme met
																																																																																						with no opposition on the part of the other two; they swore they were
																																																																																						ready for that, or for any other mad thing, for anything in short but a
																																																																																						surrender. And what was more, they each insisted upon being the first
																																																																																						man on deck, when the time to make the rush should come. But to this
																																																																																						their leader as fiercely objected, reserving that priority for himself;
																																																																																						particularly as his two comrades would not yield, the one to the other,
																																																																																						in the matter; and both of them could not be first, for the ladder
																																																																																						would but admit one man at a time. And here, gentlemen, the foul play
																																																																																						of these miscreants must come out.

																																																																																						â ye frighten me’—and the Captain drew off with
																																																																																						the rope to strike.

																																																																																						“‘Best not,’ hissed the Lakeman.

																																																																																						“‘But I must,’—and the rope was once more drawn back for the stroke.

																																																																																						“Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the Captain;
																																																																																						who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck
																																																																																						rapidly two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope,
																																																																																						said, ‘I won’t do it—let him go—cut him down: d’ye hear?’

																																																																																						“But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order, a pale
																																																																																						man, with a bandaged head, arrested them—Radney the chief mate. Ever
																																																																																						since the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the
																																																																																						tumult on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the
																																																																																						whole scene. Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardly
																																																																																						speak; but mumbling something about _his_ being willing and able to do
																																																																																						what the captain dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advanced
																																																																																						to his pinioned foe.

																																																																																						“‘You are a coward!’ hissed the Lakeman.

																																																																																						“‘So I am, but take that.’ The mate was in the very act of striking,
																																																																																						when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm. He paused: and then pausing
																																																																																						no more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt’s threat, whatever that
																																																																																						might have been. The thrwill answer. Shipmate, I haven’t enough
																																																																																						twine,—have you any?’

																																																																																						“But there was none in the forecastle.

																																																																																						“‘Then I must get some from old Rad;’ and he rose to go aft.

																																																																																						“‘You don’t mean to go a begging to _him!_’ said a sailor.

																																																																																						“‘Why not? Do you think he won’t do me a turn, when it’s to help
																																																																																						himself in the end, shipmate?’ and going to the mate, he looked at him
																																																																																						quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock. It was given
																																																																																						him—neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night an
																																																																																						iron ball, closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the
																																																																																						Lakeman’s monkey jacket, as he was tucking the coat into his hammock
																																																																																						for a pillow. Twenty-four hours after, his trick at the silent
																																																																																						helm—nigh to the man who was apt to doze over the grave always ready
																																																																																						dug to the seaman’s hand—that fatal hour was then to come; and in the
																																																																																						fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and
																																																																																						stretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.

																																																																																						“But, gentlemen, a fool saved the would-be murderer from the bloody
																																																																																						deed he had planned. Yet complete revenge he had, and without being the
																																																																																						avenger. For by a mysterious fatality, Heaven itself seemed to step in
																																																																																						to take out of his hands into its own the damning thing he would havhat
																																																																																						veil, wildly seeking to remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick. But
																																																																																						the whale rushed round in a sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer
																																																																																						between his jaws; and rearing high up with him, plunged headlong again,
																																																																																						and went down.

																																																																																						“Meantime, at the first tap of the boat’s bottom, the Lakeman had
																																																																																						slackened the line, so as to drop astern from the whirlpool; calmly
																																																																																						looking on, he thought his own thoughts. But a sudden, terrific,
																																																																																						downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his knife to the line. He
																																																																																						cut it; and the whale was free. But, at some distance, Moby Dick rose
																																																																																						again, with some tatters of Radney’s red woollen shirt, caught in the
																																																																																						teeth that had destroyed him. All four boats gave chase again; but the
																																																																																						whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared.

																																																																																						“In good time, the Town-Ho reached her port—a savage, solitary
																																																																																						place—where no civilized creature resided. There, headed by the
																																																																																						Lakeman, all but five or six of the foremastmen deliberately deserted
																																																																																						among the palms; eventually, as it turned out, seizing a large double
																																																																																						war-canoe of the savages, and setting sail for some other harbor.

																																																																																						“The ship’s company being reduced to but a handful, the captain called
																																																																																						upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious business of heaving
																																																																																						down the ship to stop the leak. But to such unresting v
																																																																																						Nantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea which refuses to
																																																																																						give up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale that
																																																																																						destroyed him.  * * * *

																																																																																						“‘Are you through?’ said Don Sebastian, quietly.

																																																																																						“‘I am, Don.’

																																																																																						“‘Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions,
																																																																																						this your story is in substance really true? It is so passing
																																																																																						wonderful! Did you get it from an unquestionable source? Bear with me
																																																																																						if I seem to press.’

																																																																																						“‘Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don
																																																																																						Sebastian’s suit,’ cried the company, with exceeding interest.

																																																																																						“‘Is there a copy of the Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn,
																																																																																						gentlemen?’

																																																																																						“‘Nay,’ said Don Sebastian; ‘but I know a worthy priest near by, who
																																																																																						will quickly procure one for me. I go for it; but are you well advised?
																																																																																						this may grow too serious.’

																																																																																						“‘Will you be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?’

																																																																																						“‘Though there are no Auto-da-Fés in Lima now,’ said one of the company
																																																																																						to another; ‘I fear our sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy.
																																																																																						Let us withdraw more out of the moonlight. I see no need of this.’

																																																																																						“‘Excuse me for running after you, Don Sebastian; but may I also beg
																																																																																						that you will be particular in procuGuido’s picture of Perseus rescuing
																																																																																						Andromeda from the sea-monster or whale. Where did Guido get the model
																																																																																						of such a strange creature as that? Nor does Hogarth, in painting the
																																																																																						same scene in his own “Perseus Descending,” make out one whit better.
																																																																																						The huge corpulence of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the
																																																																																						surface, scarcely drawing one inch of water. It has a sort of howdah on
																																																																																						its back, and its distended tusked mouth into which the billows are
																																																																																						rolling, might be taken for the Traitors’ Gate leading from the Thames
																																																																																						by water into the Tower. Then, there are the Prodromus whales of old
																																																																																						Scotch Sibbald, and Jonah’s whale, as depicted in the prints of old
																																																																																						Bibles and the cuts of old primers. What shall be said of these? As for
																																																																																						the book-binder’s whale winding like a vine-stalk round the stock of a
																																																																																						descending anchor—as stamped and gilded on the backs and title-pages of
																																																																																						many books both old and new—that is a very picturesque but purely
																																																																																						fabulous creature, imitated, I take it, from the like figures on
																																																																																						antique vases. Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless
																																																																																						call this book-binder’s fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so
																																																																																						intended when the device was first introduced. It was introduced by an
																																																																																						old Italian publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the
																																																																																						Rebut the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland
																																																																																						whale (that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long
																																																																																						experienced man as touching that species, declares not to have its
																																																																																						counterpart in nature.

																																																																																						But the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was
																																																																																						reserved for the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous
																																																																																						Baron. In 1836, he published a Natural History of Whales, in which he
																																																																																						gives what he calls a picture of the Sperm Whale. Before showing that
																																																																																						picture to any Nantucketer, you had best provide for your summary
																																																																																						retreat from Nantucket. In a word, Frederick Cuvier’s Sperm Whale is
																																																																																						not a Sperm Whale, but a squash. Of course, he never had the benefit of
																																																																																						a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but whence he derived that
																																																																																						picture, who can tell? Perhaps he got it as his scientific predecessor
																																																																																						in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his authentic abortions; that
																																																																																						is, from a Chinese drawing. And what sort of lively lads with the
																																																																																						pencil those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers inform us.

																																																																																						As for the sign-painters’ whales seeed to the last. True, one portrait may hit the
																																																																																						mark much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very
																																																																																						considerable degree of exactness. So there is no earthly way of finding
																																																																																						out precisely what the whale really looks like. And the only mode in
																																																																																						which you can derive even a tolerable idea of his living contour, is by
																																																																																						going a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of
																																																																																						being eternally stove and sunk by him. Wherefore, it seems to me you
																																																																																						had best not be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this
																																																																																						Leviathan.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 56. Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the True
																																																																																						Pictures of Whaling Scenes.

																																																																																						In connexion with the monstrous pictures of whales, I am strongly
																																																																																						tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous stories of them
																																																																																						which are to be found in certain books, both ancient and modern,
																																																																																						especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc. But I pass
																																																																																						that matter by.

																																																																																						I know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm Whale;
																																																																																						Colnett’s, Huggins’s, Frederick Cuvier’s, and Beale’s. In the previous
																																																																																						chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to. Huggins’s is far
																																																																																						better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale’s is the best. All
																																																																																						Beale’s drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in
																																																																																						the picture of three whales in various attitudes, capping his second
																																																																																						chapter. His frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no
																																																																																						doubt calculated to eboat to rock in the swells like a skiff caught nigh
																																																																																						the paddle-wheels of an ocean steamer. Thus, the foreground is all
																																																																																						raging commotion; but behind, in admirable artistic contrast, is the
																																																																																						glassy level of a sea becalmed, the drooping unstarched sails of the
																																																																																						powerless ship, and the inert mass of a dead whale, a conquered
																																																																																						fortress, with the flag of capture lazily hanging from the whale-pole
																																																																																						inserted into his spout-hole.

																																																																																						Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not. But my life for it he
																																																																																						was either practically conversant with his subject, or else
																																																																																						marvellously tutored by some experienced whaleman. The French are the
																																																																																						lads for painting action. Go and gaze upon all the paintings of Europe,
																																																																																						and where will you find such a gallery of living and breathing
																																																																																						commotion on canvas, as in that triumphal hall at Versailles; where the
																																																																																						beholder fights his way, pell-mell, through the consecutive great
																																																																																						battles of France; where every sword seems a flash of the Northern
																																																																																						Lights, and the successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a
																																																																																						charge of crowned centaurs? Not wholly unworthy of a place in that
																																																																																						gallery, are these sea battle-pieces of Garnery.

																																																																																						The natural aptitude of the French for seizing the picturesqueness of
																																																																																						things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what paintings and engravings
																																																																																						they have of their whaling scenes. With not one tenth of England’s
																																																																																						experience in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of that of the
																																																																																						Americans, they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the only
																																																																																						finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of the
																																																																																						whale ; in Mountains; in Stars.

																																																																																						On Tower-hill, as you go down to the London docks, you may have seen a
																																																																																						crippled beggar (or _kedger_, as the sailors say) holding a painted
																																																																																						board before him, representing the tragic scene in which he lost his
																																																																																						leg. There are three whales and three boats; and one of the boats
																																																																																						(presumed to contain the missing leg in all its original integrity) is
																																																																																						being crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale. Any time these ten
																																																																																						years, they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and exhibited
																																																																																						that stump to an incredulous world. But the time of his justification
																																																																																						has now come. His three whales are as good whales as were ever
																																																																																						published in Wapping, at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a
																																																																																						stump as any you will find in the western clearings. But, though for
																																																																																						ever mounted on that stump, never a stump-speech does the poor whaleman
																																																																																						make; but, with downcast eyes, stands ruefully contemplating his own
																																																																																						amputation.

																																																																																						Throughout the Pacific, and also in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and Sag
																																																																																						Harbor, you will come across lively sketches of whales and
																																																																																						whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on Sperm
																																																																																						Whale-teeth, or ladies’ busks wrought out of the Right Whale-bone, and
																																																																																						other like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous
																																																																																						little ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough
																																																																																						material, in their hours of ocean leisure. Some of them have little
																																																																																						boxes of dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the
																																																																																						skrimshandering business. But, in general, they toil with their
																																																																																						jack-knives alone; and, with that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor,
																																																																																						they will turn you out anything you please, in the way of a mariner’s
																																																																																						fancy.

																																																																																						Long exile from Christendom and civilization inevitably restores a man
																																																																																						to that condition in which God placed him, _i.e._ what is call point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the
																																																																																						profiles of whales defined along the undulating ridges. But you must be
																																																																																						a thorough whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you
																																																																																						wish to return to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the
																																																																																						exact intersecting latitude and longitude of your first stand-point,
																																																																																						else so chance-like are such observations of the hills, that your
																																																																																						precise, previous stand-point would require a laborious re-discovery;
																																																																																						like the Soloma Islands, which still remain incognita, though once
																																																																																						high-ruffed Mendanna trod them and old Figuera chronicled them.

																																																																																						Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to trace out
																																																																																						great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them; as
																																																																																						when long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies
																																																																																						locked in battle among the clouds. Thus at the North have I chased
																																																																																						Leviathan round and round the Pole with the revolutions of the bright
																																																																																						points that first defined him to me. And beneath the effulgent
																																																																																						Antarctic skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis, and joined the chase
																																																																																						against the starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of Hydrus and
																																																																																						the Flying Fish.

																																																																																						With a frigate’s anchors fen regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and
																																																																																						repelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita,
																																																																																						so that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his
																																																																																						one superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific of
																																																																																						all mortal disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen
																																																																																						tens and hundreds of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters;
																																																																																						though but a moment’s consideration will teach, that however baby man
																																																																																						may brag of his science and skill, and however much, in a flattering
																																																																																						future, that science and skill may augment; yet for ever and for ever,
																																																																																						to the crack of doom, the sea will insult and murder him, and pulverize
																																																																																						the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can make; nevertheless, by the
																																																																																						continual repetition of these very impressions, man has lost that sense
																																																																																						of the full awfulness of the sea which aboriginally belongs to it.

																																																																																						The first boat we read of, floated on an ocean, that with Portuguese
																																																																																						vengeance had whelmed a whole world without leaving so much as a widow.
																																																																																						That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean destroyed the wrecked ships
																																																																																						of last year. Yea, foolish mortals, Noah’s flood is not yet subsided;
																																																																																						two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.

																																																																																						Wherein differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a
																																																																																						miracle upon the other? Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews,
																																																																																						when under the feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened and
																																																																																						swallowed them up for ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in
																																																																																						precisely the same manner the live sea swallows up ships and crews.

																																																																																						But not only is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it, but it
																																																																																						is also a fiend to its own off-spring; worse than the Persian host who
																																																																																						murdered his own guests; sparing not the creatures which itself hath
																																																																																						spawned. Like a savage tigress that tossing in the jungle overlays her
																																																																																						own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against the
																																																																																						rocks, and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks of
																																																																																						ships. No mercy, no power but its own controls it. Panting and snorting
																																																																																						like a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean
																																																																																						overrr a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank. Then once more arose,
																																																																																						and silently gleamed. It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick?
																																																																																						thought Daggoo. Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once
																																																																																						more, with a stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod,
																																																																																						the negro yelled out—“There! there again! there she breaches! right
																																																																																						ahead! The White Whale, the White Whale!”

																																																																																						Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in swarming-time the
																																																																																						bees rush to the boughs. Bare-headed in the sultry sun, Ahab stood on
																																																																																						the bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness to wave
																																																																																						his orders to the helmsman, cast his eager glance in the direction
																																																																																						indicated aloft by the outstretched motionless arm of Daggoo.

																																																																																						Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and solitary jet had
																																																																																						gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to connect the
																																																																																						ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the particular
																																																																																						whale he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagerness betrayed
																																																																																						him; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly
																																																																																						perceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave
																																																																																						orders for lowering.

																																																																																						The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab’s in advance, and all
																																																																																						swiftly have vaguely heard rumors of the mysterious
																																																																																						creature, here spoken of, it is included among the class of
																																																																																						cuttle-fish, to which, indeed, in certain external respects it would
																																																																																						seem to belong, but only as the Anak of the tribe.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 60. The Line.

																																																																																						With reference to the whaling scene shortly to be described, as well as
																																																																																						for the better understanding of all similar scenes elsewhere presented,
																																																																																						I have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible whale-line.

																																																																																						The line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp, slightly
																																																																																						vapored with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the case of ordinary
																																																																																						ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp more pliable
																																																																																						to the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more convenient to
																																																																																						the sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary
																																																																																						quantity too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which
																																																																																						it must be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar in
																																																																																						general by no means adds to the rope’s durability or strength, however
																																																																																						much it may give it compactness and gloss.

																																																																																						Of late years the Manilla rope has in the American fishery almost
																																																																																						entirely superseded hemp as a material for whale-lines; for, though not
																																																																																						so durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far more soft and elastic; and
																																																																																						I will add (since there is an æsthetics in all things), is much more
																																																																																						handsome and becoming to the boat, than hemp. Hemp is a dusky, dark
																																																																																						fellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired Circassian
																																																																																						to behold.

																																																																																						The whale-line is only two-thirds of an inch in thickness. At first
																																																																																						sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is. By experiment
																																																																																						its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one hundred and
																																																																																						twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a str safety’s sake; for were the
																																																																																						lower end of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were the
																																																																																						whale then to run the line out to the end almost in a single, smoking
																																																																																						minute as he sometimes does, he would not stop there, for the doomed
																																																																																						boat would infallibly be dragged down after him into the profundity of
																																																																																						the sea; and in that case no town-crier would ever find her again.

																																																																																						Before lowering the boat for the chase, the upper end of the line is
																																																																																						taken aft from the tub, and passing round the loggerhead there, is
																																																																																						again carried forward the entire length of the boat, resting crosswise
																																																																																						upon the loom or handle of every man’s oar, so that it jogs against his
																																																																																						wrist in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they alternately
																																																																																						sit at the opposite gunwales, to the leaded chocks or grooves in the
																																																																																						extreme pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size
																																																																																						of a common quill, prevents it from slipping out. From the chocks it
																																																																																						hangs in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the
																																																																																						boat again; and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being
																																																																																						coiled upon the box in the bows, it continues its way to the gunwale
																																																																																						still a little further aft, and is then attached to the short-warp—the
																																																																																						rope which is immediately connected with the harpoon; but previous to
																																																																																						that connexion, the short-walent, subtle, ever-present perils of life.
																																																																																						And if you be a philosopher, though seated in the whale-boat, you would
																																																																																						not at heart feel one whit more of terror, than though seated before
																																																																																						your evening fire with a poker, and not a harpoon, by your side.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 61. Stubb Kills a Whale.

																																																																																						If to Starbuck the apparition of the Squid was a thing of portents, to
																																																																																						Queequeg it was quite a different object.

																																																																																						“When you see him ’quid,” said the savage, honing his harpoon in the
																																																																																						bow of his hoisted boat, “then you quick see him ’parm whale.”

																																																																																						The next day was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special
																																																																																						to engage them, the Pequod’s crew could hardly resist the spell of
																																																																																						sleep induced by such a vacant sea. For this part of the Indian Ocean
																																																																																						through which we then were voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively
																																																																																						ground; that is, it affords fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins,
																																																																																						flying-fish, and other vivacious denizens of more stirring waters, than
																																																																																						those off the Rio de la Plata, or the in-shore ground off Peru.

																																																																																						It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and with my shoulders
																																																																																						leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and fro I idly swayed
																																																																																						in what seemed an enchanted air. No resolution could withstand it; in
																																																																																						that dre of cautiousness was therefore
																																																																																						no longer of use. Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into play.
																																																																																						And still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the
																																																																																						assault.

																																																																																						Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish. All alive to his jeopardy,
																																																																																						he was going “head out”; that part obliquely projecting from the mad
																																																																																						yeast which he brewed.*

																																																																																						*It will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance the
																																																																																						entire interior of the sperm whale’s enormous head consists. Though
																																																																																						apparently the most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about
																																																																																						him. So that with ease he elevates it in the air, and invariably does
																																																																																						so when going at his utmost speed. Besides, such is the breadth of the
																																																																																						upper part of the front of his head, and such the tapering cut-water
																																																																																						formation of the lower part, that by obliquely elevating his head, he
																																																																																						thereby may be said to transform himself from a bluff-bowed sluggish
																																																																																						galliot into a sharppointed New York pilot-boat.

																																																																																						“Start her, start her, my men! Don’t hurry yourselves; take plenty of
																																																																																						time—but start her; start her like thunder-claps, that’s all,” cried
																																																																																						Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he spoke. “Start her, now; give ’em
																																																																																						the long and strong stroke, Tashtego. Start her, Tash, my boy—start
																																																																																						her, all; but keep cool, keep cool—cucumbers is the word—easy,
																																																																																						easy—only start her like grim death and grinning devils, and raise the
																																																																																						buried dead perpendicular out of their graves, boys—that’s all. Start
																																																																																						her!”

																																																																																						“Woo-hoo! Wa-hee!” screamed the Gay-Header in reply, raising some old
																																																																																						war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the st bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy
																																																																																						in her wake; and, at the slightest motion from within, even but of a
																																																																																						little finger, the vibrating, cracking craft canted over her spasmodic
																																																																																						gunwale into the sea. Thus they rushed; each man with might and main
																																																																																						clinging to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the foam; and the tall
																																																																																						form of Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost double, in order
																																																																																						to bring down his centre of gravity. Whole Atlantics and Pacifics
																																																																																						seemed passed as they shot on their way, till at length the whale
																																																																																						somewhat slackened his flight.

																																																																																						“Haul in—haul in!” cried Stubb to the bowsman! and, facing round
																																																																																						towards the whale, all hands began pulling the boat up to him, while
																																																																																						yet the boat was being towed on. Soon ranging up by his flank, Stubb,
																																																																																						firmly planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart after dart
																																																																																						into the flying fish; at the word of command, the boat alternately
																																																																																						sterning out of the way of the whale’s horrible wallow, and then
																																																																																						ranging up for another fling.

																																																																																						The red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks down
																																																																																						a hill. His tormented body rolled not in brine but in blood, which
																																																																																						bubbled and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake. The
																																																																																						top of one’s compass, while all the other muscles are strained and half
																																																																																						started—what that is none know but those who have tried it. For one, I
																																																																																						cannot bawl very heartily and work very recklessly at one and the same
																																																																																						time. In this straining, bawling state, then, with his back to the
																																																																																						fish, all at once the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting
																																																																																						cry—“Stand up, and give it to him!” He now has to drop and secure his
																																																																																						oar, turn round on his centre half way, seize his harpoon from the
																																																																																						crotch, and with what little strength may remain, he essays to pitch it
																																																																																						somehow into the whale. No wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemen
																																																																																						in a body, that out of fifty fair chances for a dart, not five are
																																																																																						successful; no wonder that so many hapless harpooneers are madly cursed
																																																																																						and disrated; no wonder that some of them actually burst their
																																																																																						blood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that some sperm whalemen are
																																																																																						absent four years with four barrels; no wonder that to many ship
																																																																																						owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the harpooneer that
																																																																																						makes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his body how can
																																																																																						you expect to find it there when most wanted!

																																																																																						Again, if the dart be successful, then at the second critical instant,
																																																																																						that is, when the whale starts to run, the boatheader and harpooneer
																																																																																						likewise start to ruways unattended
																																																																																						with the saddest and most fatal casualties.

																																																																																						Furthermore: you must know that when the second iron is thrown
																																																																																						overboard, it thenceforth becomes a dangling, sharp-edged terror,
																																																																																						skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines,
																																																																																						or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.
																																																																																						Nor, in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is
																																																																																						fairly captured and a corpse.

																																																																																						Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats all engaging
																																																																																						one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to these
																																																																																						qualities in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of
																																																																																						such an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be
																																																																																						simultaneously dangling about him. For, of course, each boat is
																																																																																						supplied with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first
																																																																																						one be ineffectually darted without recovery. All these particulars are
																																																																																						faithfully narrated here, as they will not fail to elucidate several
																																																																																						most important, however intricate passages, in scenes hereafter to be
																																																																																						painted.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 64. Stubb’s Supper.

																																																																																						Stubb’s whale had been killed some distance from the ship. It was a
																																																																																						calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats, we commenced the slow
																																																																																						business of towing the trophy to the Pequod. And now, as we eighteen
																																																																																						men with our thirtyhain is readily
																																																																																						made to follow suit; and being slipped along the body, is at last
																																																																																						locked fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the point of
																																																																																						junction with its broad flukes or lobes.

																																																																																						If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at least so far as could be known
																																																																																						on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with conquest, betrayed an
																																																																																						unusual but still good-natured excitement. Such an unwonted bustle was
																																																																																						he in that the staid Starbuck, his official superior, quietly resigned
																																																																																						to him for the time the sole management of affairs. One small, helping
																																																																																						cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was soon made strangely
																																																																																						manifest. Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat intemperately fond of
																																																																																						the whale as a flavorish thing to his palate.

																																																																																						“A steak, a steak, ere I sleep! You, Daggoo! overboard you go, and cut
																																																																																						me one from his small!”

																																																																																						Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a general
																																																																																						thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy defray
																																																																																						the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the proceeds
																																																																																						of the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers
																																																																																						who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale
																																																																																						designated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.

																																																																																						About midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two
																																																																																						lanter to form a more secure base for his supper;
																																																																																						and, at the same time darting his fork into the dish, as if stabbing
																																																																																						with his lance; “cook, you cook!—sail this way, cook!”

																																																																																						The old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously
																																																																																						roused from his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came
																																																																																						shambling along from his galley, for, like many old blacks, there was
																																																																																						something the matter with his knee-pans, which he did not keep well
																																																																																						scoured like his other pans; this old Fleece, as they called him, came
																																																																																						shuffling and limping along, assisting his step with his tongs, which,
																																																																																						after a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened iron hoops; this old
																																																																																						Ebony floundered along, and in obedience to the word of command, came
																																																																																						to a dead stop on the opposite side of Stubb’s sideboard; when, with
																																																																																						both hands folded before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he
																																																																																						bowed his arched back still further over, at the same time sideways
																																																																																						inclining his head, so as to bring his best ear into play.

																																																																																						“Cook,” said Stubb, rapidly lifting a rather reddish morsel to his
																																																																																						mouth, “don’t you think this steak is rather overdone? You’ve been
																																																																																						beating this steak too much, cook; it’s too tender. Don’t I always say
																																																																																						that to be good, a whale- on.”

																																																																																						“No use goin’ on; de dam willains will keep a scougin’ and slappin’
																																																																																						each oder, Massa Stubb; dey don’t hear one word; no use a-preachin’ to
																																																																																						such dam g’uttons as you call ’em, till dare bellies is full, and dare
																																																																																						bellies is bottomless; and when dey do get ’em full, dey wont hear you
																																																																																						den; for den dey sink in de sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
																																																																																						can’t hear not’ing at all, no more, for eber and eber.”

																																																																																						“Upon my soul, I am about of the same opinion; so give the benediction,
																																																																																						Fleece, and I’ll away to my supper.”

																																																																																						Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised his
																																																																																						shrill voice, and cried—

																																																																																						“Cussed fellow-critters! Kick up de damndest row as ever you can; fill
																																																																																						your dam’ bellies ’till dey bust—and den die.”

																																																																																						“Now, cook,” said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; “stand
																																																																																						just where you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular
																																																																																						attention.”

																																																																																						“All dention,” said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the
																																																																																						desired position.

																																																																																						“Well,” said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; “I shall now go
																																																																																						back to the subject of this steak. In the first place, how old are you,
																																																																																						cook?”

																																																																																						âongs, cook, and hear my orders. Do ye
																																																																																						hear? Hold your hat in one hand, and clap t’other a’top of your heart,
																																																																																						when I’m giving my orders, cook. What! that your heart, there?—that’s
																																																																																						your gizzard! Aloft! aloft!—that’s it—now you have it. Hold it there
																																																																																						now, and pay attention.”

																																																																																						“All ’dention,” said the old black, with both hands placed as desired,
																																																																																						vainly wriggling his grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at
																																																																																						one and the same time.

																																																																																						“Well then, cook, you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad,
																																																																																						that I have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that,
																																																																																						don’t you? Well, for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for
																																																																																						my private table here, the capstan, I’ll tell you what to do so as not
																																																																																						to spoil it by overdoing. Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live
																																																																																						coal to it with the other; that done, dish it; d’ye hear? And now
																																																																																						to-morrow, cook, when we are cutting in the fish, be sure you stand by
																																																																																						to get the tips of his fins; have them put in pickle. As for the ends
																																																																																						of the flukes, have them soused, cook. There, now ye may go.”

																																																																																						But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.

																																																																																						“Cook, give me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.
																																																																																						D’ye hear? away you sail, then.—Halloa! stop! maketh of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for
																																																																																						butter. Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into
																																																																																						some other substance, and then partaking of it. In the long try watches
																																																																																						of the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their
																																																																																						ship-biscuit into the huge oil-pots and let them fry there awhile. Many
																																																																																						a good supper have I thus made.

																																																																																						In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine
																																																																																						dish. The casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two
																																																																																						plump, whitish lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large
																																																																																						puddings), they are then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most
																																																																																						delectable mess, in flavor somewhat resembling calves’ head, which is
																																																																																						quite a dish among some epicures; and every one knows that some young
																																																																																						bucks among the epicures, by continually dining upon calves’ brains, by
																																																																																						and by get to have a little brains of their own, so as to be able to
																																																																																						tell a calf’s head from their own heads; which, indeed, requires
																																																																																						uncommon discrimination. And that is the reason why a young buck with
																																																																																						an intelligent looking calf’s head before him, is somehow one of the
																																																																																						saddest sights you can see. The head looks a sort of reproachfully at
																																																																																						him, with an “Et tu Brute!” expression.

																																																																																						It is not, perhaps, entirely because the whale is so excessively
																																																																																						unctuous that landsmen seem to regard the eating of him wsiderably
																																																																																						diminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades, a
																																																																																						procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to
																																																																																						tickle them into still greater activity. But it was not thus in the
																																																																																						present case with the Pequod’s sharks; though, to be sure, any man
																																																																																						unaccustomed to such sights, to have looked over her side that night,
																																																																																						would have almost thought the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and
																																																																																						those sharks the maggots in it.

																																																																																						Nevertheless, upon Stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper was
																																																																																						concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman came
																																																																																						on deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for
																																																																																						immediately suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering
																																																																																						three lanterns, so that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid
																																																																																						sea, these two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an
																																																																																						incessant murdering of the sharks,* by striking the keen steel deep
																																																																																						into their skulls, seemingly their only vital part. But in the foamy
																																																																																						confusion of their mixed and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not
																																																																																						always hit their mark; and this brought about new revelations of the
																																																																																						incredible ferocity of the foe. They viciously snapped, not only at
																																																																																						each other’s disembowelments, but like flexible bows, bent round, and
																																																																																						bit their own; till thosee of the windlass is answered by a
																																																																																						helping heave from the billows; till at last, a swift, startling snap
																																																																																						is heard; with a great swash the ship rolls upwards and backwards from
																																																																																						the whale, and the triumphant tackle rises into sight dragging after it
																																																																																						the disengaged semicircular end of the first strip of blubber. Now as
																																																																																						the blubber envelopes the whale precisely as the rind does an orange,
																																																																																						so is it stripped off from the body precisely as an orange is sometimes
																																																																																						stripped by spiralizing it. For the strain constantly kept up by the
																																																																																						windlass continually keeps the whale rolling over and over in the
																																																																																						water, and as the blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along the
																																																																																						line called the “scarf,” simultaneously cut by the spades of Starbuck
																																																																																						and Stubb, the mates; and just as fast as it is thus peeled off, and
																																																																																						indeed by that very act itself, it is all the time being hoisted higher
																																																																																						and higher aloft till its upper end grazes the main-top; the men at the
																																																																																						windlass then cease heaving, and for a moment or two the prodigious
																																																																																						blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let down from the sky, and
																																																																																						every one present must take good heed to dodge it when it swings, else
																																																																																						it may box his ears and pitch him headlong overboard.

																																																																																						One of the attending harpooneers now advaased myself with fancying it exerted a
																																																																																						magnifying influence. At any rate, it is pleasant to read about whales
																																																																																						through their own spectacles, as you may say. But what I am driving at
																																																																																						here is this. That same infinitely thin, isinglass substance, which, I
																																																																																						admit, invests the entire body of the whale, is not so much to be
																																																																																						regarded as the skin of the creature, as the skin of the skin, so to
																																																																																						speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say, that the proper skin of
																																																																																						the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender than the skin of a
																																																																																						new-born child. But no more of this.

																																																																																						Assuming the blubber to be the skin of the whale; then, when this skin,
																																																																																						as in the case of a very large Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one
																																																																																						hundred barrels of oil; and, when it is considered that, in quantity,
																																																																																						or rather weight, that oil, in its expressed state, is only three
																																																																																						fourths, and not the entire substance of the coat; some idea may hence
																																																																																						be had of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part of whose
																																																																																						mere integument yields such a lake of liquid as that. Reckoning ten
																																																																																						barrels to the ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three
																																																																																						quarters of the stuff of the whale’s skin.

																																																																																						In life, the visible surfaceow wonderful is it then—except after
																																																																																						explanation—that this great monster, to whom corporeal warmth is as
																																																																																						indispensable as it is to man; how wonderful that he should be found at
																																																																																						home, immersed to his lips for life in those Arctic waters! where, when
																																																																																						seamen fall overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards,
																																																																																						perpendicularly frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is
																																																																																						found glued in amber. But more surprising is it to know, as has been
																																																																																						proved by experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than
																																																																																						that of a Borneo negro in summer.

																																																																																						It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a strong
																																																																																						individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare
																																																																																						virtue of interior spaciousness. Oh, man! admire and model thyself
																																																																																						after the whale! Do thou, too, remain warm among ice. Do thou, too,
																																																																																						live in this world without being of it. Be cool at the equator; keep
																																																																																						thy blood fluid at the Pole. Like the great dome of St. Peter’s, and
																																																																																						like the great whale, retain, O man! in all seasons a temperature of
																																																																																						thine own.

																																																																																						But how easy and how hopeless to teach these fine things! Of erections,
																																																																																						how few are domed like St. Peter’s! of creatures, how few veck;
																																																																																						on the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that
																																																																																						very place, is the thickest part of him. Remember, also, that the
																																																																																						surgeon must operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening
																																																																																						between him and his subject, and that subject almost hidden in a
																																																																																						discoloured, rolling, and oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea. Bear
																																																																																						in mind, too, that under these untoward circumstances he has to cut
																																																																																						many feet deep in the flesh; and in that subterraneous manner, without
																																																																																						so much as getting one single peep into the ever-contracting gash thus
																																																																																						made, he must skilfully steer clear of all adjacent, interdicted parts,
																																																																																						and exactly divide the spine at a critical point hard by its insertion
																																																																																						into the skull. Do you not marvel, then, at Stubb’s boast, that he
																																																																																						demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm whale?

																																																																																						When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a
																																																																																						cable till the body is stripped. That done, if it belong to a small
																																																																																						whale it is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of. But, with a
																																																																																						full grown leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale’s head
																																																																																						embraces nearly one third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend
																																																																																						such a burden as that, even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this
																																																																																						were as vain a thing as to attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers’
																																																																																						scales.

																																																																																						The Pequod’s whale being decapitated and the body stripped, the head
																																																																																						was hoisted against the ship’s side—about half way out of the sea, so
																																																																																						that it might yet in great part be buvoice from the main-mast-head.

																																																																																						“Aye? Well, now, that’s cheering,” cried Ahab, suddenly erecting
																																																																																						himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow. “That
																																																																																						lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better
																																																																																						man.—Where away?”

																																																																																						“Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her breeze
																																																																																						to us!

																																																																																						“Better and better, man. Would now St. Paul would come along that way,
																																																																																						and to my breezelessness bring his breeze! O Nature, and O soul of man!
																																																																																						how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies! not the
																																																																																						smallest atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate
																																																																																						in mind.”


																																																																																						CHAPTER 71. The Jeroboam’s Story.

																																																																																						Hand in hand, ship and breeze blew on; but the breeze came faster than
																																																																																						the ship, and soon the Pequod began to rock.

																																																																																						By and by, through the glass the stranger’s boats and manned mast-heads
																																																																																						proved her a whale-ship. But as she was so far to windward, and
																																																																																						shooting by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the
																																																																																						Pequod could not hope to reach her. So the signal was set to see what
																																																																																						response would be made.

																																																																																						Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the ships
																																																																																						of the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which
																																																																																						signals being collected in a book with the names of the respective
																																																																																						vessels attached, every captain is provided with it. Thereby, the whale
																																																																																						coy nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna
																																																																																						Shakers, where he had been a great prophet; in their cracked, secret
																																																																																						meetings having several times descended from heaven by the way of a
																																																																																						trap-door, announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial, which he
																																																																																						carried in his vest-pocket; but, which, instead of containing
																																																																																						gunpowder, was supposed to be charged with laudanum. A strange,
																																																																																						apostolic whim having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for Nantucket,
																																																																																						where, with that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a steady,
																																																																																						common-sense exterior, and offered himself as a green-hand candidate
																																																																																						for the Jeroboam’s whaling voyage. They engaged him; but straightway
																																																																																						upon the ship’s getting out of sight of land, his insanity broke out in
																																																																																						a freshet. He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and commanded
																																																																																						the captain to jump overboard. He published his manifesto, whereby he
																																																																																						set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and
																																																																																						vicar-general of all Oceanica. The unflinching earnestness with which
																																																																																						he declared these things;—the dark, daring play of his sleepless,
																																																																																						excited imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real
																																																																																						delirium, united to invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of
																																																																																						the ignorant crew, with an atmosphere of sacredness. Moreover, they
																																																																																						were afraid of him. As such a man, however, was not of much practical
																																																																																						use in the ship, especially as he refused to work except when he
																																																																																						pleased, the incredulous captain would fain have been rid of him; but
																																																																																						apprised that that tioned, and the crazy sea that seemed
																																																																																						leagued with him.

																																																																																						It seemed that the Jeroboam had not long left home, when upon speaking
																																																																																						a whale-ship, her people were reliably apprised of the existence of
																																																																																						Moby Dick, and the havoc he had made. Greedily sucking in this
																																																																																						intelligence, Gabriel solemnly warned the captain against attacking the
																																																																																						White Whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his gibbering
																																																																																						insanity, pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the
																																																																																						Shaker God incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible. But when, some
																																																																																						year or two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the
																																																																																						mast-heads, Macey, the chief mate, burned with ardour to encounter him;
																																																																																						and the captain himself being not unwilling to let him have the
																																																																																						opportunity, despite all the archangel’s denunciations and
																																																																																						forewarnings, Macey succeeded in persuading five men to man his boat.
																																																																																						With them he pushed off; and, after much weary pulling, and many
																																																																																						perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last succeeded in getting one iron
																																																																																						fast. Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the main-royal mast-head, was
																																																																																						tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling forth prophecies of
																																																																																						speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his divinity. Now, while
																																																																																						Macey, the mate, was standing up in his boat’s bow, and with all the
																																																																																						reckless energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations upon the
																																																																																						whale, and essaying to get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo! a
																																																																																						broad white shadow rose from the sea; by its quick, fanning motion,
																																																																																						temporarily takine cabin. Of such a
																																																																																						letter, Death himself might well have been the post-boy.

																																																																																						“Can’st not read it?” cried Ahab. “Give it me, man. Aye, aye, it’s but
																																																																																						a dim scrawl;—what’s this?” As he was studying it out, Starbuck took a
																																																																																						long cutting-spade pole, and with his knife slightly split the end, to
																																																																																						insert the letter there, and in that way, hand it to the boat, without
																																																																																						its coming any closer to the ship.

																																																																																						Meantime, Ahab holding the letter, muttered, “Mr. Har—yes, Mr. Harry—(a
																																																																																						woman’s pinny hand,—the man’s wife, I’ll wager)—Aye—Mr. Harry Macey,
																																																																																						Ship Jeroboam;—why it’s Macey, and he’s dead!”

																																																																																						“Poor fellow! poor fellow! and from his wife,” sighed Mayhew; “but let
																																																																																						me have it.”

																																																																																						“Nay, keep it thyself,” cried Gabriel to Ahab; “thou art soon going
																																																																																						that way.”

																																																																																						“Curses throttle thee!” yelled Ahab. “Captain Mayhew, stand by now to
																																																																																						receive it”; and taking the fatal missive from Starbuck’s hands, he
																																																																																						caught it in the slit of the pole, and reached it over towards the
																																																																																						boat. But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing;
																																																																																						the boat drifted a little towards the ship’s stern; so that, as if by
																																																																																						magic, the letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel’s eager hand. He
																																																																																						clutched it ing the cord, it should
																																																																																						drag me down in his wake. So, then, an elongated Siamese ligature
																																																																																						united us. Queequeg was my own inseparable twin brother; nor could I
																																																																																						any way get rid of the dangerous liabilities which the hempen bond
																																																																																						entailed.

																																																																																						So strongly and metaphysically did I conceive of my situation then,
																																																																																						that while earnestly watching his motions, I seemed distinctly to
																																																																																						perceive that my own individuality was now merged in a joint stock
																																																																																						company of two; that my free will had received a mortal wound; and that
																																																																																						another’s mistake or misfortune might plunge innocent me into unmerited
																																																																																						disaster and death. Therefore, I saw that here was a sort of
																																																																																						interregnum in Providence; for its even-handed equity never could have
																																																																																						so gross an injustice. And yet still further pondering—while I jerked
																																																																																						him now and then from between the whale and ship, which would threaten
																																																																																						to jam him—still further pondering, I say, I saw that this situation of
																																																																																						mine was the precise situation of every mortal that breathes; only, in
																																																																																						most cases, he, one way or other, has this Siamese connexion with a
																																																																																						plurality of other mortals. If your banker breaks, you snap; if your
																																																																																						apothecary by mistake sends you poison in your pills, you die. True,
																																																																																						you may say that, by exceeding caution, you may possibly escape these
																																																																																						and the multitudinous other evil chances of life. But handle Queequeg’s
																																																																																						monkey-rope heedfully as I would, sometimes he jerked it so, that I
																																																																																						came very near sliding overboard. Nor could I possibly forget that, do
																																																																																						what I would, I only had the management of one end of it.*

																																																																																						*The monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in the Pequod
																																																																																						that the monkey and his holder were ever tied together. This
																																																																																						improvement upon the original usage was introduced by no less a man
																																																																																						tha a sad pickle and peril, poor lad.

																																																																																						But courage! there is good cheer in store for you, Queequeg. For now,
																																																																																						as with blue lips and blood-shot eyes the exhausted savage at last
																																																																																						climbs up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily
																																																																																						trembling over the side; the steward advances, and with a benevolent,
																																																																																						consolatory glance hands him—what? Some hot Cognac? No! hands him, ye
																																																																																						gods! hands him a cup of tepid ginger and water!

																																																																																						“Ginger? Do I smell ginger?” suspiciously asked Stubb, coming near.
																																																																																						“Yes, this must be ginger,” peering into the as yet untasted cup. Then
																																																																																						standing as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards the
																																																																																						astonished steward slowly saying, “Ginger? ginger? and will you have
																																																																																						the goodness to tell me, Mr. Dough-Boy, where lies the virtue of
																																																																																						ginger? Ginger! is ginger the sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, to
																																																																																						kindle a fire in this shivering cannibal? Ginger!—what the devil is
																																																																																						ginger? Sea-coal? firewood?—lucifer matches?—tinder?—gunpowder?—what
																																																																																						the devil is ginger, I say, that you offer this cup to our poor
																																																																																						Queequeg here.”

																																																																																						“There is some sneaking Temperance Society movement about this
																																																																																						business,” he suddenly addsk’s, were detached in pursuit. Pulling further
																																																																																						and further away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at
																																																																																						the mast-head. But suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of
																																																																																						tumultuous white water, and soon after news came from aloft that one or
																																																																																						both the boats must be fast. An interval passed and the boats were in
																																																																																						plain sight, in the act of being dragged right towards the ship by the
																																																																																						towing whale. So close did the monster come to the hull, that at first
																																																																																						it seemed as if he meant it malice; but suddenly going down in a
																																																																																						maelstrom, within three rods of the planks, he wholly disappeared from
																																																																																						view, as if diving under the keel. “Cut, cut!” was the cry from the
																																																																																						ship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the point of being
																																																																																						brought with a deadly dash against the vessel’s side. But having plenty
																																																																																						of line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very rapidly, they
																																																																																						paid out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with all their
																																																																																						might so as to get ahead of the ship. For a few minutes the struggle
																																																																																						was intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the tightened
																																																																																						line in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, the
																																																																																						contending stre hasn’t got any hammock; but I’ve
																																																																																						seen him lay of nights in a coil of rigging.”

																																																																																						“No doubt, and it’s because of his cursed tail; he coils it down, do ye
																																																																																						see, in the eye of the rigging.”

																																																																																						“What’s the old man have so much to do with him for?”

																																																																																						“Striking up a swap or a bargain, I suppose.”

																																																																																						“Bargain?—about what?”

																																																																																						“Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent after that White Whale, and
																																																																																						the devil there is trying to come round him, and get him to swap away
																																																																																						his silver watch, or his soul, or something of that sort, and then
																																																																																						he’ll surrender Moby Dick.”

																																																																																						“Pooh! Stubb, you are skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?”

																																																																																						“I don’t know, Flask, but the devil is a curious chap, and a wicked
																																																																																						one, I tell ye. Why, they say as how he went a sauntering into the old
																																																																																						flag-ship once, switching his tail about devilish easy and
																																																																																						gentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at home. Well, he
																																																																																						was at home, and asked the devil what he wanted. The devil, switching
																																																																																						his hoofs, up and says, ‘I want John.’ ‘What for?’ says the old
																																																																																						governor. ‘What business is that of yours,’ says the devil, getting
																																																																																						mad,—‘I want to use him.’ ‘Take him,’ says the governor—and by the
																																																																																						Lord, Flask, if the devil didn’t give John the Asiatic cholera before
																																																																																						he got through with him, Iâeelzebub, you don’t do it; and if he makes any fuss, by the Lord
																																																																																						I’ll make a grab into his pocket for his tail, take it to the capstan,
																																																																																						and give him such a wrenching and heaving, that his tail will come
																																																																																						short off at the stump—do you see; and then, I rather guess when he
																																																																																						finds himself docked in that queer fashion, he’ll sneak off without the
																																																																																						poor satisfaction of feeling his tail between his legs.”

																																																																																						“And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?”

																																																																																						“Do with it? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home;—what else?”

																																																																																						“Now, do you mean what you say, and have been saying all along, Stubb?”

																																																																																						“Mean or not mean, here we are at the ship.”

																																																																																						The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard side,
																																																																																						where fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for
																																																																																						securing him.

																																																																																						“Didn’t I tell you so?” said Flask; “yes, you’ll soon see this right
																																																																																						whale’s head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti’s.”

																																																																																						In good time, Flask’s saying proved true. As before, the Pequod steeply
																																																																																						leaned over towards the sperm whale’s head, now, by the counterpoise of
																																																																																						both heads, she regained her even keel; though sorely strained, you may
																																																																																						well believe. So, when on one side you hoirch, you will at last see a lashless eye, which you would
																																																																																						fancy to be a young colt’s eye; so out of all proportion is it to the
																																																																																						magnitude of the head.

																																																																																						Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the whale’s eyes, it is
																																																																																						plain that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead, no more
																																																																																						than he can one exactly astern. In a word, the position of the whale’s
																																																																																						eyes corresponds to that of a man’s ears; and you may fancy, for
																																																																																						yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects
																																																																																						through your ears. You would find that you could only command some
																																																																																						thirty degrees of vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight;
																																																																																						and about thirty more behind it. If your bitterest foe were walking
																																																																																						straight towards you, with dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not
																																																																																						be able to see him, any more than if he were stealing upon you from
																																																																																						behind. In a word, you would have two backs, so to speak; but, at the
																																																																																						same time, also, two fronts (side fronts): for what is it that makes
																																																																																						the front of a man—what, indeed, but his eyes?

																																																																																						Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes
																																																																																						are so planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to
																																																																																						producand never discover that organ. The ear has no external leaf
																																																																																						whatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so
																																																																																						wondrously minute is it. It is lodged a little behind the eye. With
																																																																																						respect to their ears, this important difference is to be observed
																																																																																						between the sperm whale and the right. While the ear of the former has
																																																																																						an external opening, that of the latter is entirely and evenly covered
																																																																																						over with a membrane, so as to be quite imperceptible from without.

																																																																																						Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the whale should see the
																																																																																						world through so small an eye, and hear the thunder through an ear
																																																																																						which is smaller than a hare’s? But if his eyes were broad as the lens
																																																																																						of Herschel’s great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches of
																																																																																						cathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of
																																																																																						hearing? Not at all.—Why then do you try to “enlarge” your mind?
																																																																																						Subtilize it.

																																																																																						Let us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cant
																																																																																						over the sperm whale’s head, that it may lie bottom up; then, ascending
																																																																																						by a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it not
																																																																																						that the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we
																																																																																						might descend into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach. But
																																																																																						let us hold on here by this tooth, and look r to this great head it begins to assume different
																																																																																						aspects, according to your point of view. If you stand on its summit
																																																																																						and look at these two F-shaped spoutholes, you would take the whole
																																																																																						head for an enormous bass-viol, and these spiracles, the apertures in
																																																																																						its sounding-board. Then, again, if you fix your eye upon this strange,
																																																																																						crested, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass—this green,
																																																																																						barnacled thing, which the Greenlanders call the “crown,” and the
																																																																																						Southern fishers the “bonnet” of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes
																																																																																						solely on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak,
																																																																																						with a bird’s nest in its crotch. At any rate, when you watch those
																																																																																						live crabs that nestle here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost
																																																																																						sure to occur to you; unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the
																																																																																						technical term “crown” also bestowed upon it; in which case you will
																																																																																						take great interest in thinking how this mighty monster is actually a
																																																																																						diademed king of the sea, whose green crown has been put together for
																																																																																						him in this marvellous manner. But if this whale be a king, he is a
																																																																																						very sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem. Look at that hanging lower
																																																																																						lip! what a huge sulk and pout is there! a sulk and pout, by
																																																																																						carpenter’s measurement, about twenty feet long and five feet deep; a
																																																																																						sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more.

																																																																																						A great pity, now, that this unfortunate whale shou, with the like thoughtlessness, do we
																																																																																						nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the umbrella being a
																																																																																						tent spread over the same bone.

																																																																																						But now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment, and,
																																																																																						standing in the Right Whale’s mouth, look around you afresh. Seeing all
																																																																																						these colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about, would you not
																																																																																						think you were inside of the great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon its
																																																																																						thousand pipes? For a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest
																																																																																						Turkey—the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of the
																																																																																						mouth. It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting
																																																																																						it on deck. This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I
																																																																																						should say it was a six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about that
																																																																																						amount of oil.

																																																																																						Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I started
																																																																																						with—that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely
																																																																																						different heads. To sum up, then: in the Right Whale’s there is no
																																																																																						great well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible
																																																																																						of a lower jaw, like the Sperm Whale’s. Nor in the Sperm Whale are
																																																																																						there any of those blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely
																																																																																						anything of a tongue. Again, the Right Whale has two external
																																																																																						spout-holes, the Sperm Whale only one.

																																																																																						Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet
																																																																																						lie together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other
																																																																																						will not be very long in following.

																																																																																						Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale’s there? It is the same
																																																																																						he died wmpregnably invests all that
																																																																																						apparent effeminacy. In some previous place I have described to you how
																																																																																						the blubber wraps the body of the whale, as the rind wraps an orange.
																																																																																						Just so with the head; but with this difference: about the head this
																																																																																						envelope, though not so thick, is of a boneless toughness, inestimable
																																																																																						by any man who has not handled it. The severest pointed harpoon, the
																																																																																						sharpest lance darted by the strongest human arm, impotently rebounds
																																																																																						from it. It is as though the forehead of the Sperm Whale were paved
																																																																																						with horses’ hoofs. I do not think that any sensation lurks in it.

																																																																																						Bethink yourself also of another thing. When two large, loaded Indiamen
																																																																																						chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do the
																																																																																						sailors do? They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming
																																																																																						contact, any merely hard substance, like iron or wood. No, they hold
																																																																																						there a large, round wad of tow and cork, enveloped in the thickest and
																																																																																						toughest of ox-hide. That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which
																																																																																						would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow-bars. By
																																																																																						itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at. But
																																																																																						supplementary to this, it has hypothetically occurred to me, that as
																																																																																						ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them,
																																																																																						capable, at will, of distension or contrart, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb of
																																																																																						oil, formed by the crossing and recrossing, into ten thousand
																																																																																						infiltrated cells, of tough elastic white fibres throughout its whole
																																																																																						extent. The upper part, known as the Case, may be regarded as the great
																																																																																						Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale. And as that famous great tierce is
																																																																																						mystically carved in front, so the whale’s vast plaited forehead forms
																																																																																						innumerable strange devices for the emblematical adornment of his
																																																																																						wondrous tun. Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always replenished
																																																																																						with the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so the tun
																																																																																						of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily
																																																																																						vintages; namely, the highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure,
																																																																																						limpid, and odoriferous state. Nor is this precious substance found
																																																																																						unalloyed in any other part of the creature. Though in life it remains
																																																																																						perfectly fluid, yet, upon exposure to the air, after death, it soon
																																																																																						begins to concrete; sending forth beautiful crystalline shoots, as when
																																																																																						the first thin delicate ice is just forming in water. A large whale’s
																																																																																						case generally yields about five hundred gallons of sperm, though from
																																																																																						unavoidable circumstances, considerable of it is spilled, leaks, and
																																																																																						dribbles away, or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the ticklish
																																																																																						business of securing wds. These last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the
																																																																																						Indian, to whom another person has reached up a very long pole.
																																																																																						Inserting this pole into the bucket, Tashtego downward guides the
																																																																																						bucket into the Tun, till it entirely disappears; then giving the word
																																																																																						to the seamen at the whip, up comes the bucket again, all bubbling like
																																																																																						a dairy-maid’s pail of new milk. Carefully lowered from its height, the
																																																																																						full-freighted vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly
																																																																																						emptied into a large tub. Then remounting aloft, it again goes through
																																																																																						the same round until the deep cistern will yield no more. Towards the
																																																																																						end, Tashtego has to ram his long pole harder and harder, and deeper
																																																																																						and deeper into the Tun, until some twenty feet of the pole have gone
																																																																																						down.

																																																																																						Now, the people of the Pequod had been baling some time in this way;
																																																																																						several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all at once
																																																																																						a queer accident happened. Whether it was that Tashtego, that wild
																																																																																						Indian, was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his
																																																																																						one-handed hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; or
																																																																																						whether the place where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or
																																																																																						whether the Evil One himself would have it to fall out so, without
																																																																																						stating his particular reasons; how it was exactly, there is no telling
																																																																																						now; but, on a sudden, as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came
																																																																																						suckingly up—my God! poor Tashtego—like the twin reciprocating bucket
																																																																																						in a veritable well, dropped head-foremost down into this great Tun of
																																																																																						Heidelburgh, and with a horrible oily gurgling, went clean out of
																																																																																						sight!

																																																																																						“Man overboard!” cried Daggoo, who amihe next, a loud splash announced that my
																																																																																						brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue. One packed rush was made to the
																																																																																						side, and every eye counted every ripple, as moment followed moment,
																																																																																						and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen. Some hands
																																																																																						now jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed a little off from the
																																																																																						ship.

																																																																																						“Ha! ha!” cried Daggoo, all at once, from his now quiet, swinging perch
																																																																																						overhead; and looking further off from the side, we saw an arm thrust
																																																																																						upright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as an arm thrust
																																																																																						forth from the grass over a grave.

																																																																																						“Both! both!—it is both!”—cried Daggoo again with a joyful shout; and
																																																																																						soon after, Queequeg was seen boldly striking out with one hand, and
																																																																																						with the other clutching the long hair of the Indian. Drawn into the
																																																																																						waiting boat, they were quickly brought to the deck; but Tashtego was
																																																																																						long in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very brisk.

																																																																																						Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished? Why, diving after the
																																																																																						slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made side
																																																																																						lunges near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole there; then
																																																																																						dropping his sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards,
																																																																																						and so hauled out poor Tash by the head. He averred, that upon first
																																																																																						thrusting in for him, a leg was presented; bas yet undertaken. Such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as
																																																																																						for Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the Rock of Gibraltar,
																																																																																						or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of the
																																																																																						Pantheon. Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only treats of
																																																																																						the various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces of
																																																																																						horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the
																																																																																						modifications of expression discernible therein. Nor have Gall and his
																																																																																						disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the
																																																																																						phrenological characteristics of other beings than man. Therefore,
																																																																																						though I am but ill qualified for a pioneer, in the application of
																																																																																						these two semi-sciences to the whale, I will do my endeavor. I try all
																																																																																						things; I achieve what I can.

																																																																																						Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature. He
																																																																																						has no proper nose. And since the nose is the central and most
																																																																																						conspicuous of the features; and since it perhaps most modifies and
																																																																																						finally controls their combined expression; hence it would seem that
																																																																																						its entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely affect
																																																																																						the countenance of the whale. For as in landscape gardening, a spire,
																																																																																						cupola, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable
																																																																																						to the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in
																																																																																						keeping without the elevated open-work belfry e. And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale
																																																																																						been known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified by
																																																																																						their child-magian thoughts. They deified the crocodile of the Nile,
																																																																																						because the crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no tongue,
																																																																																						or at least it is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of
																																																																																						protrusion. If hereafter any highly cultured, poetical nation shall
																																																																																						lure back to their birth-right, the merry May-day gods of old; and
																																																																																						livingly enthrone them again in the now egotistical sky; in the now
																																																																																						unhaunted hill; then be sure, exalted to Jove’s high seat, the great
																																																																																						Sperm Whale shall lord it.

																																																																																						Champollion deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics. But there is
																																																																																						no Champollion to decipher the Egypt of every man’s and every being’s
																																																																																						face. Physiognomy, like every other human science, is but a passing
																																																																																						fable. If then, Sir William Jones, who read in thirty languages, could
																																																																																						not read the simplest peasant’s face in its profounder and more subtle
																																																																																						meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of
																																																																																						the Sperm Whale’s brow? I but put that brow before you. Read it if you
																																																																																						can.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 80. The Nut.

																																																																																						If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx, to the phrenologist
																																																																																						his brain seems that ge men to perceive. A foreign friend once
																																																																																						pointed it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with
																																																																																						the vertebræ of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the
																																																																																						beaked prow of his canoe. Now, I consider that the phrenologists have
																																																																																						omitted an important thing in not pushing their investigations from the
																																																																																						cerebellum through the spinal canal. For I believe that much of a man’s
																																																																																						character will be found betokened in his backbone. I would rather feel
																																																																																						your spine than your skull, whoever you are. A thin joist of a spine
																																																																																						never yet upheld a full and noble soul. I rejoice in my spine, as in
																																																																																						the firm audacious staff of that flag which I fling half out to the
																																																																																						world.

																																																																																						Apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the Sperm Whale. His cranial
																																																																																						cavity is continuous with the first neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra
																																																																																						the bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inches across, being
																																																																																						eight in height, and of a triangular figure with the base downwards. As
																																																																																						it passes through the remaining vertebræ the canal tapers in size, but
																																																																																						for a considerable distance remains of large capacity. Now, of course,
																																																																																						this canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance—the
																																																																																						spinal cord—as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain. d to supply the deficiency; concluding by
																																																																																						hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically
																																																																																						called a _clean_ one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the name
																																																																																						of Jungfrau or the Virgin.

																																																																																						His necessities supplied, Derick departed; but he had not gained his
																																																																																						ship’s side, when whales were almost simultaneously raised from the
																																																																																						mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was Derick, that
																																																																																						without pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he slewed
																																																																																						round his boat and made after the leviathan lamp-feeders.

																																																																																						Now, the game having risen to leeward, he and the other three German
																																																																																						boats that soon followed him, had considerably the start of the
																																																																																						Pequod’s keels. There were eight whales, an average pod. Aware of their
																																																																																						danger, they were going all abreast with great speed straight before
																																																																																						the wind, rubbing their flanks as closely as so many spans of horses in
																																																																																						harness. They left a great, wide wake, as though continually unrolling
																																																																																						a great wide parchment upon the sea.

																																																																																						Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a huge,
																																																																																						humped old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well as
																																																																																						by the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed
																																																																																						afflicted with the jaundice, or some other infirmity. Whether this
																																																																																						whale belonged to the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is
																																																																																						not customary for such venerable leviathans to be at all social.
																																																																																						Nevertheless, he stuck to their wake, though indeed their back water
																																																																																						must have retarded him, because t ye going to let that rascal beat ye? Do ye
																																																																																						love brandy? A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man. Come, why
																																																																																						don’t some of ye burst a blood-vessel? Who’s that been dropping an
																																																																																						anchor overboard—we don’t budge an inch—we’re becalmed. Halloo, here’s
																																																																																						grass growing in the boat’s bottom—and by the Lord, the mast there’s
																																																																																						budding. This won’t do, boys. Look at that Yarman! The short and long
																																																																																						of it is, men, will ye spit fire or not?”

																																																																																						“Oh! see the suds he makes!” cried Flask, dancing up and down—“What a
																																																																																						hump—Oh, _do_ pile on the beef—lays like a log! Oh! my lads, _do_
																																																																																						spring—slap-jacks and quahogs for supper, you know, my lads—baked clams
																																																																																						and muffins—oh, _do_, _do_, spring,—he’s a hundred barreller—don’t lose
																																																																																						him now—don’t oh, _don’t!_—see that Yarman—Oh, won’t ye pull for your
																																																																																						duff, my lads—such a sog! such a sogger! Don’t ye love sperm? There
																																																																																						goes three thousand dollars, men!—a bank!—a whole bank! The bank of
																																																																																						England!—Oh, _do_, _do_, _do!_—What’s that Yarman about now?”

																																																																																						At this moment Derick was in the act of pitching his lamp-feeder at the
																																																																																						advancing boats, and also his oil-can; perhaps withthan all
																																																																																						three tigers—Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo—instinctively sprang to their
																																																																																						feet, and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed their
																																																																																						barbs; and darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three
																																																																																						Nantucket irons entered the whale. Blinding vapors of foam and
																																																																																						white-fire! The three boats, in the first fury of the whale’s headlong
																																																																																						rush, bumped the German’s aside with such force, that both Derick and
																																																																																						his baffled harpooneer were spilled out, and sailed over by the three
																																																																																						flying keels.

																																																																																						“Don’t be afraid, my butter-boxes,” cried Stubb, casting a passing
																																																																																						glance upon them as he shot by; “ye’ll be picked up presently—all
																																																																																						right—I saw some sharks astern—St. Bernard’s dogs, you know—relieve
																																																																																						distressed travellers. Hurrah! this is the way to sail now. Every keel
																																																																																						a sunbeam! Hurrah!—Here we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a
																																																																																						mad cougar! This puts me in mind of fastening to an elephant in a
																																																																																						tilbury on a plain—makes the wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to
																																																																																						him that way; and there’s danger of being pitched out too, when you
																																																																																						strike a hill. Hurrah! this is the way a fellow feels when he’s going
																																																																																						to Davy Jones—all a rush down an endless inclined plane! Hurrah! this
																																																																																						whale carries the everlasting mail!”

																																																																																						But the monster’s run was a brief one. Giving a sudden gasp, he
																																																																																						tumultuously sounded. With a grating rush, the three lines flew round
																																																																																						the loggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in t he? Oh!
																																																																																						that unfulfilments should follow the prophets. For with the strength of
																																																																																						a thousand thighs in his tail, Leviathan had run his head under the
																																																																																						mountains of the sea, to hide him from the Pequod’s fish-spears!

																																																																																						In that sloping afternoon sunlight, the shadows that the three boats
																																																																																						sent down beneath the surface, must have been long enough and broad
																																																																																						enough to shade half Xerxes’ army. Who can tell how appalling to the
																																																																																						wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over his head!

																																																																																						“Stand by, men; he stirs,” cried Starbuck, as the three lines suddenly
																																																																																						vibrated in the water, distinctly conducting upwards to them, as by
																																																																																						magnetic wires, the life and death throbs of the whale, so that every
																																																																																						oarsman felt them in his seat. The next moment, relieved in great part
																																																																																						from the downward strain at the bows, the boats gave a sudden bounce
																																																																																						upwards, as a small icefield will, when a dense herd of white bears are
																																																																																						scared from it into the sea.

																																																																																						“Haul in! Haul in!” cried Starbuck again; “he’s rising.”

																																																																																						The lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand’s breadth
																																																																																						could have been gained, were now in long quick coils flung back all
																																																																																						dripping into the boats, and soon the whale broke water within two
																																																																																						ship’s lengths of the hunters.

																																																																																						His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion. In most land
																																																																																						animals there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins,
																																																																																						whereby when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantly
																																																																																						shut off in certain directions. Not so with the whale; one of whose
																																																																																						peculiarities it 
																																																																																						by loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had
																																																																																						made; lay panting on his side, impotently flapped with his stumped fin,
																																																																																						then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world; turned up the
																																																																																						white secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died. It was most
																																																																																						piteous, that last expiring spout. As when by unseen hands the water is
																																																																																						gradually drawn off from some mighty fountain, and with half-stifled
																																																																																						melancholy gurglings the spray-column lowers and lowers to the
																																																																																						ground—so the last long dying spout of the whale.

																																																																																						Soon, while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship, the body
																																																																																						showed symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled.
																																																																																						Immediately, by Starbuck’s orders, lines were secured to it at
																																																																																						different points, so that ere long every boat was a buoy; the sunken
																																																																																						whale being suspended a few inches beneath them by the cords. By very
																																																																																						heedful management, when the ship drew nigh, the whale was transferred
																																																																																						to her side, and was strongly secured there by the stiffest
																																																																																						fluke-chains, for it was plain that unless artificially upheld, the
																																																																																						body would at once sink to the bottom.

																																																																																						It so chanced that almost upon first cutting into him with the spade,
																																																																																						the entire length of a corroded harpoon was found imbedded in his
																																																																																						flesh, on  belly considerably elevated above the
																																																																																						surface. If the only whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and
																																																																																						broken-hearted creatures, their pads of lard diminished and all their
																																																																																						bones heavy and rheumatic; then you might with some reason assert that
																																																																																						this sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so
																																																																																						sinking, consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him. But it
																																																																																						is not so. For young whales, in the highest health, and swelling with
																																																																																						noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm flush and May of
																																																																																						life, with all their panting lard about them; even these brawny,
																																																																																						buoyant heroes do sometimes sink.

																																																																																						Be it said, however, that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this
																																																																																						accident than any other species. Where one of that sort go down, twenty
																																																																																						Right Whales do. This difference in the species is no doubt imputable
																																																																																						in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale;
																																																																																						his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton; from this
																																																																																						incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free. But there are instances
																																																																																						where, after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale
																																																																																						again rises, more buoyant than in life. But the reason of this is
																																																																																						obvious. Gases are generated in him; he swells to a prodigious
																																																																																						magnitude; becomes a sort of animal balloon. A line-of-battle ship
																																																																																						could hardly keep him under then. In the Shore Whaling, on soundings,
																																																																																						amo seems most singular and suggestively important in this
																																																																																						story, is this: it was from Joppa that Jonah set sail.

																																																																																						Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda—indeed, by some supposed
																																																																																						to be indirectly derived from it—is that famous story of St. George and
																																																																																						the Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many
																																																																																						old chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together, and
																																																																																						often stand for each other. “Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a
																																																																																						dragon of the sea,” saith Ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale; in
																																																																																						truth, some versions of the Bible use that word itself. Besides, it
																																																																																						would much subtract from the glory of the exploit had St. George but
																																																																																						encountered a crawling reptile of the land, instead of doing battle
																																																																																						with the great monster of the deep. Any man may kill a snake, but only
																																																																																						a Perseus, a St. George, a Coffin, have the heart in them to march
																																																																																						boldly up to a whale.

																																																																																						Let not the modern paintings of this scene mislead us; for though the
																																																																																						creature encountered by that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely
																																																																																						represented of a griffin-like shape, and though the battle is depicted
																																																																																						on land and the saint on horseback, yet considering the great ignorance
																																																																																						of those times, when the true form of the whale was unknown to artists;
																																																																																						and considering that as in Perseus’ case, St. George’s whale might have
																																																																																						crawled up out of the sea on the beaishnoo, to preside over the work; but the Vedas, or mystical
																																																																																						books, whose perusal would seem to have been indispensable to Vishnoo
																																																																																						before beginning the creation, and which therefore must have contained
																																																																																						something in the shape of practical hints to young architects, these
																																																																																						Vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters; so Vishnoo became
																																																																																						incarnate in a whale, and sounding down in him to the uttermost depths,
																																																																																						rescued the sacred volumes. Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then? even
																																																																																						as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?

																																																																																						Perseus, St. George, Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo! there’s a
																																																																																						member-roll for you! What club but the whaleman’s can head off like
																																																																																						that?


																																																																																						CHAPTER 83. Jonah Historically Regarded.

																																																																																						Reference was made to the historical story of Jonah and the whale in
																																																																																						the preceding chapter. Now some Nantucketers rather distrust this
																																																																																						historical story of Jonah and the whale. But then there were some
																																																																																						sceptical Greeks and Romans, who, standing out from the orthodox pagans
																																																																																						of their times, equally doubted the story of Hercules and the whale,
																																																																																						and Arion and the dolphin; and yet their doubting those traditions did
																																																																																						not make those traditions one whit the less facts, for all that.

																																																																																						One old Sag-Harbor whaleman’s chief reason for questioning the Hebrew
																																																																																						story was this:—He had one of those quaint old-fashioned Bibles,
																																																																																						embellished with curious, unscientific plates; oak of
																																																																																						the Tigris waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for any
																																																																																						whale to swim in. Besides, this idea of Jonah’s weathering the Cape of
																																																																																						Good Hope at so early a day would wrest the honor of the discovery of
																																																																																						that great headland from Bartholomew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, and
																																																																																						so make modern history a liar.

																																																																																						But all these foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only evinced his
																																																																																						foolish pride of reason—a thing still more reprehensible in him, seeing
																																																																																						that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from the
																																																																																						sun and the sea. I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and
																																																																																						abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy. For by a
																																																																																						Portuguese Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah’s going to Nineveh
																																																																																						via the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of the
																																																																																						general miracle. And so it was. Besides, to this day, the highly
																																																																																						enlightened Turks devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah.
																																																																																						And some three centuries ago, an English traveller in old Harris’s
																																																																																						Voyages, speaks of a Turkish Mosque built in honor of Jonah, in which
																																																																																						Mosque was a miraculous lamp that burnt without any oil.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 84. Pitchpoling.

																																																																																						To make them run easily and swiftly, the axles of carriages are
																																																																																						anointed; and for much the same purpose, some whalers perform an
																																																																																						analogous operation upon their boat; they grease the bottom. Nor is it
																																																																																						to n the direst emergencies, was specially qualified to excel
																																																																																						in pitchpoling. Look at him; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the
																																																																																						flying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is forty feet
																																																																																						ahead. Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice along
																																																																																						its length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gathers
																																																																																						up the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in
																																																																																						his grasp, leaving the rest unobstructed. Then holding the lance full
																																																																																						before his waistband’s middle, he levels it at the whale; when,
																																																																																						covering him with it, he steadily depresses the butt-end in his hand,
																																																																																						thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon
																																																																																						his palm, fifteen feet in the air. He minds you somewhat of a juggler,
																																																																																						balancing a long staff on his chin. Next moment with a rapid, nameless
																																																																																						impulse, in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming
																																																																																						distance, and quivers in the life spot of the whale. Instead of
																																																																																						sparkling water, he now spouts red blood.

																																																																																						“That drove the spigot out of him!” cried Stubb. “’Tis July’s immortal
																																																																																						Fourth; all fountains must run wine today! Would now, it were old
																																																																																						Orleans whiskey, or old Ohio, or unspeakable old Monongahela! Then,
																																																																																						Tashtego, lad, I’d have ye t the bottom) without drawing a single breath, or
																																																																																						so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember, he has
																																																																																						no gills. How is this? Between his ribs and on each side of his spine
																																																																																						he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of
																																																																																						vermicelli-like vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are
																																																																																						completely distended with oxygenated blood. So that for an hour or
																																																																																						more, a thousand fathoms in the sea, he carries a surplus stock of
																																																																																						vitality in him, just as the camel crossing the waterless desert
																																																																																						carries a surplus supply of drink for future use in its four
																																																																																						supplementary stomachs. The anatomical fact of this labyrinth is
																																																																																						indisputable; and that the supposition founded upon it is reasonable
																																																																																						and true, seems the more cogent to me, when I consider the otherwise
																																																																																						inexplicable obstinacy of that leviathan in _having his spoutings out_,
																																																																																						as the fishermen phrase it. This is what I mean. If unmolested, upon
																																																																																						rising to the surface, the Sperm Whale will continue there for a period
																																																																																						of time exactly uniform with all his other unmolested risings. Say he
																																																																																						stays eleven minutes, and jets seventy times, that is, respires seventy
																																																																																						breaths; then whenever he rises again, he will be sure to have his
																																																																																						seventy breaths over again, to a minute. Now, if after he fetches a few
																																																																																						breaths you alarm him, so that he sounds, he will be always dodging up
																																																																																						again to make good his regular als, whether the spout
																																																																																						of the Sperm Whale is the mere vapor of the exhaled breath, or whether
																																																																																						that exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth, and
																																																																																						discharged through the spiracle. It is certain that the mouth
																																																																																						indirectly communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be
																																																																																						proved that this is for the purpose of discharging water through the
																																																																																						spiracle. Because the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be,
																																																																																						when in feeding he accidentally takes in water. But the Sperm Whale’s
																																																																																						food is far beneath the surface, and there he cannot spout even if he
																																																																																						would. Besides, if you regard him very closely, and time him with your
																																																																																						watch, you will find that when unmolested, there is an undeviating
																																																																																						rhyme between the periods of his jets and the ordinary periods of
																																																																																						respiration.

																																																																																						But why pester one with all this reasoning on the subject? Speak out!
																																																																																						You have seen him spout; then declare what the spout is; can you not
																																																																																						tell water from air? My dear sir, in this world it is not so easy to
																																																																																						settle these plain things. I have ever found your plain things the
																																																																																						knottiest of all. And as for this whale spout, you might almost stand
																																																																																						in it, and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely.

																																																																																						The ctional argument for the above
																																																																																						supposition.

																																																																																						And how nobly it raises our conceit of the mighty, misty monster, to
																																																																																						behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea; his vast, mild
																																																																																						head overhung by a canopy of vapor, engendered by his incommunicable
																																																																																						contemplations, and that vapor—as you will sometimes see it—glorified
																																																																																						by a rainbow, as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his thoughts.
																																																																																						For, d’ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only irradiate
																																																																																						vapor. And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my
																																																																																						mind, divine intuitions now and then shoot, enkindling my fog with a
																																																																																						heavenly ray. And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny;
																																																																																						but doubts or denials, few along with them, have intuitions. Doubts of
																																																																																						all things earthly, and intuitions of some things heavenly; this
																																																																																						combination makes neither believer nor infidel, but makes a man who
																																																																																						regards them both with equal eye.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 86. The Tail.

																																																																																						Other poets have warbled the praises of the soft eye of the antelope,
																																																																																						and the lovely plumage of the bird that never alights; less celestial,
																																																																																						I celebrate a tail.

																																																																																						Reckoning the largest sized Sperm Whale’s tail to begin at that point
																																																																																						of the trunk where it tapers to about the girth of a man, it comprises
																																																																																						upontues of his
																																																																																						teachings.

																																																																																						Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that whether
																																																																																						wielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood it
																																																																																						be in, its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace. Therein
																																																																																						no fairy’s arm can transcend it.

																																																																																						Five great motions are peculiar to it. First, when used as a fin for
																																																																																						progression; Second, when used as a mace in battle; Third, in sweeping;
																																																																																						Fourth, in lobtailing; Fifth, in peaking flukes.

																																																																																						First: Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan’s tail acts in a
																																																																																						different manner from the tails of all other sea creatures. It never
																																																																																						wriggles. In man or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority. To the
																																																																																						whale, his tail is the sole means of propulsion. Scroll-wise coiled
																																																																																						forwards beneath the body, and then rapidly sprung backwards, it is
																																																																																						this which gives that singular darting, leaping motion to the monster
																																																																																						when furiously swimming. His side-fins only serve to steer by.

																																																																																						Second: It is a little significant, that while one sperm whale only
																																																																																						fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless, in his
																																																																																						conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail. In
																																																																																						striking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and the
																																																																																						blow is only inflicted by the recoil. If it be made in the unobstructed
																																																																																						air, especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply
																																																																																						irresistible. No ribs of man or boat can withstand it. Your only
																																																																																						salvation lies in eluding it; but if it comes sideways through the
																																																																																						opposing water, then partly owing to the light buoyancy of the
																																																																																						whale-boat, and the elasticity of its materials, a cracked rib or a
																																																																																						dashed plank or two, a sort of stitch in the side, is generally the
																																																																																						most serious result. These submerged side blows are so often received
																																																																																						in the fishery, that they are accounted mere child’s play. Some one
																																																																																						strips off a frock, and the hole is stopped.

																																																																																						Third: ven. So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting
																																																																																						forth his tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell. But in
																																																																																						gazing at such scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in the
																																																																																						Dantean, the devils will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the
																																																																																						archangels. Standing at the mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that
																																																																																						crimsoned sky and sea, I once saw a large herd of whales in the east,
																																																																																						all heading towards the sun, and for a moment vibrating in concert with
																																																																																						peaked flukes. As it seemed to me at the time, such a grand embodiment
																																																																																						of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the home of
																																																																																						the fire worshippers. As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African
																																																																																						elephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most
																																																																																						devout of all beings. For according to King Juba, the military
																																																																																						elephants of antiquity often hailed the morning with their trunks
																																																																																						uplifted in the profoundest silence.

																																																																																						The chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and the
																																																																																						elephant, so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk
																																																																																						of the other are concerned, should not tend to place those two opposite
																																																																																						organs on an equality, much less the creatures to which they
																																																																																						respectively belong. For as the mightiest elephant is but a terrier to
																																																																																						Leviathan, so, compared with Leviathan’s tail, his trunk is but the
																																																																																						stalk of a lily. The most direful blow from the elephant’s trunk were
																																																																																						as the playful tap of a fan, compared with the measureless crush and
																																																																																						crash of the sperm whale’s ponderous flukes, which in repeated
																																																																																						instances have one after the other hurled entire boats with all their
																																																																																						oars and crews into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his
																																																																																						balls.*

																																																																																						*Though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale and
																																																																																						the elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular the
																																																																																						elephant stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does
																																																																																						to the elephant; nevertheless, there are not wanting some points of
																																																																																						curious similitude; among these is the spout. It is well known that the
																																																																																						elephant will often draw up water or dust in his trunk, and then
																																																																																						elevating it, jet it forth in a stream.

																																																																																						The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my
																																																																																						inability to express it. At times there are gestures in it, which,
																																																																																						though they would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly
																																																																																						inexplicable. In an extensive herd, so remarkable, occasioo some vast walled empire: and
																																																																																						considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices, and silks, and jewels,
																																																																																						and gold, and ivory, with which the thousand islands of that oriental
																																																																																						sea are enriched, it seems a significant provision of nature, that such
																																																																																						treasures, by the very formation of the land, should at least bear the
																																																																																						appearance, however ineffectual, of being guarded from the all-grasping
																																																																																						western world. The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied with
																																																																																						those domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the
																																																																																						Mediterranean, the Baltic, and the Propontis. Unlike the Danes, these
																																																																																						Orientals do not demand the obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from
																																																																																						the endless procession of ships before the wind, which for centuries
																																																																																						past, by night and by day, have passed between the islands of Sumatra
																																																																																						and Java, freighted with the costliest cargoes of the east. But while
																																																																																						they freely waive a ceremonial like this, they do by no means renounce
																																																																																						their claim to more solid tribute.

																																																																																						Time out of mind the piratical proas of the Malays, lurking among the
																																																																																						low shaded coves and islets of Sumatra, have sallied out upon the
																																																																																						vessels sailing through the straits, fiercely demanding tribute at the
																																																																																						point of their spears. Though by the repeated bloody chastisements they
																																																																																						have received at the hands of European cruisers, the audacity of these
																																																																																						corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed; yet, even at the present
																																																																																						day, we occasionally hear of English and American vessels, which, in
																																																																																						those waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged.

																																																																																						With a fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these
																																																																																						straits; Ahab purposing to pass through them Almost renouncing all thought of falling in with any game
																																																																																						hereabouts, the ship had well nigh entered the straits, when the
																																																																																						customary cheering cry was heard from aloft, and ere long a spectacle
																																																																																						of singular magnificence saluted us.

																																																																																						But here be it premised, that owing to the unwearied activity with
																																																																																						which of late they have been hunted over all four oceans, the Sperm
																																																																																						Whales, instead of almost invariably sailing in small detached
																																																																																						companies, as in former times, are now frequently met with in extensive
																																																																																						herds, sometimes embracing so great a multitude, that it would almost
																																																																																						seem as if numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and
																																																																																						covenant for mutual assistance and protection. To this aggregation of
																																																																																						the Sperm Whale into such immense caravans, may be imputed the
																																																																																						circumstance that even in the best cruising grounds, you may now
																																																																																						sometimes sail for weeks and months together, without being greeted by
																																																																																						a single spout; and then be suddenly saluted by what sometimes seems
																																																																																						thousands on thousands.

																																																																																						Broad on both bows, at the distance of some two or three miles, and
																																																																																						forming a great semicircle, embracing one half of the level horizon, a
																																																																																						continuous chain of whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in the
																																																																																						noon-day air. Unlike the straight perpendicular twin-jets of the Right
																																																																																						Whale, which, dividing at top, fall over in two branches, like the
																																																																																						cleft drooping boughs of a willow, the single forward-slanting spout of
																																																																																						the Sperm Whale presents a thick . And when he glanced upon the green walls of the watery
																																																																																						defile in which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him that
																																																																																						through that gate lay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that
																																																																																						through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his
																																																																																						deadly end; and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild pirates
																																																																																						and inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with
																																																																																						their curses;—when all these conceits had passed through his brain,
																																																																																						Ahab’s brow was left gaunt and ribbed, like the black sand beach after
																																																																																						some stormy tide has been gnawing it, without being able to drag the
																																																																																						firm thing from its place.

																																																																																						But thoughts like these troubled very few of the reckless crew; and
																																																																																						when, after steadily dropping and dropping the pirates astern, the
																																																																																						Pequod at last shot by the vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra
																																																																																						side, emerging at last upon the broad waters beyond; then, the
																																																																																						harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the swift whales had been
																																																																																						gaining upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship had so
																																																																																						victoriously gained upon the Malays. But still driving on in the wake
																																																																																						of the whales, at length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the
																																																																																						ship neared them; and the wind now dying away, word was passed to
																																																																																						spring to the boats. But no sooner did the herd, by some presumed
																																																																																						wonderful instinct of the Sperm Whale, become notified of the three
																																																																																						keelst present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the
																																																																																						fishery. For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the
																																																																																						frantic shoal, you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a
																																																																																						delirious throb.

																																																																																						As, blind and deaf, the whale plunged forward, as if by sheer power of
																																																																																						speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as we
																																																																																						thus tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by
																																																																																						the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was
																																																																																						like a ship mobbed by ice-isles in a tempest, and striving to steer
																																																																																						through their complicated channels and straits, knowing not at what
																																																																																						moment it may be locked in and crushed.

																																																																																						But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully; now sheering off
																																																																																						from this monster directly across our route in advance; now edging away
																																																																																						from that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while all the
																																																																																						time, Starbuck stood up in the bows, lance in hand, pricking out of our
																																																																																						way whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was no
																																																																																						time to make long ones. Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though their
																																																																																						wonted duty was now altogether dispensed with. They chiefly attended to
																																																																																						the shouting part of the business. “Out of the way, Commodore!” cried
																																																																																						one, to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface,
																																																																																						and for an instant threatened to swamp us. “Hard down with your tail,
																																																																																						there!” cried a second to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemed
																																																																																						calmly cooling himself with his own fan-like extremity.

																																																																																						All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances, omultiplied spans of horses in a ring; and so closely shoulder to
																																																																																						shoulder, that a Titanic circus-rider might easily have over-arched the
																																																																																						middle ones, and so have gone round on their backs. Owing to the
																																																																																						density of the crowd of reposing whales, more immediately surrounding
																																																																																						the embayed axis of the herd, no possible chance of escape was at
																																																																																						present afforded us. We must watch for a breach in the living wall that
																																																																																						hemmed us in; the wall that had only admitted us in order to shut us
																																																																																						up. Keeping at the centre of the lake, we were occasionally visited by
																																																																																						small tame cows and calves; the women and children of this routed host.

																																																																																						Now, inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving
																																																																																						outer circles, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in
																																																																																						any one of those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced by
																																																																																						the whole multitude, must have contained at least two or three square
																																																																																						miles. At any rate—though indeed such a test at such a time might be
																																																																																						deceptive—spoutings might be discovered from our low boat that seemed
																																																																																						playing up almost from the rim of the horizon. I mention this
																																																																																						circumstance, because, as if the cows and calves had been purposely
																																																																																						locked up in tempen one, so that the cub is thereby trapped. Some of the subtlest
																																																																																						secrets of the seas seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond. We
																																																																																						saw young Leviathan amours in the deep.*

																																																																																						*The sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, but
																																																																																						unlike most other fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after a
																																																																																						gestation which may probably be set down at nine months, producing but
																																																																																						one at a time; though in some few known instances giving birth to an
																																																																																						Esau and Jacob:—a contingency provided for in suckling by two teats,
																																																																																						curiously situated, one on each side of the anus; but the breasts
																																																																																						themselves extend upwards from that. When by chance these precious
																																																																																						parts in a nursing whale are cut by the hunter’s lance, the mother’s
																																																																																						pouring milk and blood rivallingly discolour the sea for rods. The milk
																																																																																						is very sweet and rich; it has been tasted by man; it might do well
																																																																																						with strawberries. When overflowing with mutual esteem, the whales
																																																																																						salute _more hominum_.

																																																																																						And thus, though surrounded by circle upon circle of consternations and
																																																																																						affrights, did these inscrutable creatures at the centre freely and
																																																																																						fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments; yea, serenely revelled
																																																																																						in dalliance and delight. But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic of
																																																																																						my being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm;
																																																																																						and while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep down
																																																																																						and deep inland there I still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy.

																																																																																						Meanwhile, as we thus lay entranced, the occasional sudden frantic
																																																																																						spectacles in the distance evinced the activity of the other boats,
																																																																																						still engaged in drugging the whales on the o pile themselves up in one common mountain. Instantly
																																																																																						Starbuck and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking the stern.

																																																																																						“Oars! Oars!” he intensely whispered, seizing the helm—“gripe your
																																																																																						oars, and clutch your souls, now! My God, men, stand by! Shove him off,
																																																																																						you Queequeg—the whale there!—prick him!—hit him! Stand up—stand up,
																																																																																						and stay so! Spring, men—pull, men; never mind their backs—scrape
																																																																																						them!—scrape away!”

																																																																																						The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks, leaving a
																																																																																						narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths. But by desperate
																																																																																						endeavor we at last shot into a temporary opening; then giving way
																																																																																						rapidly, and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet.
																																																																																						After many similar hair-breadth escapes, we at last swiftly glided into
																																																																																						what had just been one of the outer circles, but now crossed by random
																																																																																						whales, all violently making for one centre. This lucky salvation was
																																																																																						cheaply purchased by the loss of Queequeg’s hat, who, while standing in
																																																																																						the bows to prick the fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean from his
																																																																																						head by the air-eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad
																																																																																						flukes close by.

																																																																																						Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was, it soon
																																																																																						resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for having
																																																																																						clumped together at last in one dense body, they then renewed their
																																																																																						onhey start for
																																																																																						the Oriental waters in anticipation of the cool season there, and so
																																																																																						evade the other excessive temperature of the year.

																																																																																						When serenely advancing on one of these journeys, if any strange
																																																																																						suspicious sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his
																																																																																						interesting family. Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan
																																																																																						coming that way, presume to draw confidentially close to one of the
																																																																																						ladies, with what prodigious fury the Bashaw assails him, and chases
																																																																																						him away! High times, indeed, if unprincipled young rakes like him are
																																																																																						to be permitted to invade the sanctity of domestic bliss; though do
																																																																																						what the Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most notorious Lothario out of
																																																																																						his bed; for, alas! all fish bed in common. As ashore, the ladies often
																																																																																						cause the most terrible duels among their rival admirers; just so with
																																																																																						the whales, who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love. They
																																																																																						fence with their long lower jaws, sometimes locking them together, and
																																																																																						so striving for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their
																																																																																						antlers. Not a few are captured having the deep scars of these
																																																																																						encounters,—furrowed heads, broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in some
																																																																																						instances, wrenched and dislocated mouths.

																																																																																						But supposing the invader of domestic bli or
																																																																																						forty-barrel-bulls, as they call them, are by far the most pugnacious
																																																																																						of all Leviathans, and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter;
																																																																																						excepting those wondrous grey-headed, grizzled whales, sometimes met,
																																																																																						and these will fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout.

																																																																																						The Forty-barrel-bull schools are larger than the harem schools. Like a
																																																																																						mob of young collegians, they are full of fight, fun, and wickedness,
																																																																																						tumbling round the world at such a reckless, rollicking rate, that no
																																																																																						prudent underwriter would insure them any more than he would a riotous
																																																																																						lad at Yale or Harvard. They soon relinquish this turbulence though,
																																																																																						and when about three-fourths grown, break up, and separately go about
																																																																																						in quest of settlements, that is, harems.

																																																																																						Another point of difference between the male and female schools is
																																																																																						still more characteristic of the sexes. Say you strike a
																																																																																						Forty-barrel-bull—poor devil! all his comrades quit him. But strike a
																																																																																						member of the harem school, and her companions swim around her with
																																																																																						every token of concern, sometimes lingering so near her and so long, as
																																																																																						themselves to fall a prey.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 89. Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish.

																																																																																						The allusion to the waif and waif-poles in the last chapter but one,
																																																																																						necessitates some account of the laws and regulations of the whale
																																																																																						fishery, of which the waif may f
																																																																																						a whale in the Northern seas; and when indeed they (the plaintiffs) had
																																																																																						succeeded in harpooning the fish; they were at last, through peril of
																																																																																						their lives, obliged to forsake not only their lines, but their boat
																																																																																						itself. Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came up
																																																																																						with the whale, struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it
																																																																																						before the very eyes of the plaintiffs. And when those defendants were
																																																																																						remonstrated with, their captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs’
																																																																																						teeth, and assured them that by way of doxology to the deed he had
																																																																																						done, he would now retain their line, harpoons, and boat, which had
																																																																																						remained attached to the whale at the time of the seizure. Wherefore
																																																																																						the plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale,
																																																																																						line, harpoons, and boat.

																																																																																						Mr. Erskine was counsel for the defendants; Lord Ellenborough was the
																																																																																						judge. In the course of the defence, the witty Erskine went on to
																																																																																						illustrate his position, by alluding to a recent crim. con. case,
																																																																																						wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his wife’s
																																																																																						viciousness, had at last abandoned her upon the seas of life; but in
																																																																																						the course of years, repenting of that step, he instituted an action to
																																																																																						recover possession of her. Erskine was on the other side; and he then
																																																																																						supported it by saying, that though the gentleman had originally
																																																																																						harpooned the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason of
																																																																																						the great stress of her plunging viciousness, had at last abandoned
																																																																																						her; yet abandon her he did, so that she became a loose-fish; and
																																																																																						therefore when a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady then
																																																																																						became that subsequent
																																																																																						towns and hamlets but Fast-Fish? What to that redoubted harpooneer,
																																																																																						John Bull, is poor Ireland, but a Fast-Fish? What to that apostolic
																																																																																						lancer, Brother Jonathan, is Texas but a Fast-Fish? And concerning all
																																																																																						these, is not Possession the whole of the law?

																																																																																						But if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable, the
																																																																																						kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so. That is
																																																																																						internationally and universally applicable.

																																																																																						What was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck the
																																																																																						Spanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and
																																																																																						mistress? What was Poland to the Czar? What Greece to the Turk? What
																																																																																						India to England? What at last will Mexico be to the United States? All
																																																																																						Loose-Fish.

																																																																																						What are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World but
																																																																																						Loose-Fish? What all men’s minds and opinions but Loose-Fish? What is
																																																																																						the principle of religious belief in them but a Loose-Fish? What to the
																																																																																						ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but
																																																																																						Loose-Fish? What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish? And what
																																																																																						are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?


																																																																																						CHAPTER 90. Heads or Tails.

																																																																																						“De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat caput, et regina caudam.”
																																																																																						_Bracton, l. 3, c. 3._

																																																																																						Latin from the books of the Laws of England, which taken along with thsome expense, and is all
																																																																																						that to go to the Duke’s benefit; we getting nothing at all for our
																																																																																						pains but our blisters?”

																																																																																						“It is his.”

																																																																																						“Is the Duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of
																																																																																						getting a livelihood?”

																																																																																						“It is his.”

																																																																																						“I thought to relieve my old bed-ridden mother by part of my share of
																																																																																						this whale.”

																																																																																						“It is his.”

																																																																																						“Won’t the Duke be content with a quarter or a half?”

																																																																																						“It is his.”

																																																																																						In a word, the whale was seized and sold, and his Grace the Duke of
																																																																																						Wellington received the money. Thinking that viewed in some particular
																																																																																						lights, the case might by a bare possibility in some small degree be
																																																																																						deemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an honest clergyman
																																																																																						of the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace, begging him to
																																																																																						take the case of those unfortunate mariners into full consideration. To
																																																																																						which my Lord Duke in substance replied (both letters were published)
																																																																																						that he had already done so, and received the money, and would be
																																																																																						obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he (the reverend
																																																																																						gentleman) would decline meddling with other people’s business. Is this
																																																																																						the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three
																																																																																						kingdoms, on all hands coercing alms of beggars?

																																																																																						It will readily be seen that ie that has died unmolested on the sea, and so floated an
																																																																																						unappropriated corpse. It may well be conceived, what an unsavory odor
																																																																																						such a mass must exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the plague,
																																																																																						when the living are incompetent to bury the departed. So intolerable
																																																																																						indeed is it regarded by some, that no cupidity could persuade them to
																																																																																						moor alongside of it. Yet are there those who will still do it;
																																																																																						notwithstanding the fact that the oil obtained from such subjects is of
																																																																																						a very inferior quality, and by no means of the nature of
																																																																																						attar-of-rose.

																																																																																						Coming still nearer with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman
																																																																																						had a second whale alongside; and this second whale seemed even more of
																																																																																						a nosegay than the first. In truth, it turned out to be one of those
																																																																																						problematical whales that seem to dry up and die with a sort of
																																																																																						prodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion; leaving their defunct bodies
																																																																																						almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil. Nevertheless, in the
																																																																																						proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever turn up
																																																																																						his nose at such a whale as this, however much he may shun blasted
																																																																																						whales in general.

																																																																																						The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger, that Stubb vowed he
																																																																																						recognised his cutting spade-pole entangled in the lines that were
																																																																																						knotted round the tail of one of these whales.

																																																																																						“There’s a pretuernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out to be
																																																																																						the chief-mate.

																																																																																						“Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the White Whale?”

																																																																																						“_What_ whale?”

																																																																																						“The _White_ Whale—a Sperm Whale—Moby Dick, have ye seen him?

																																																																																						“Never heard of such a whale. Cachalot Blanche! White Whale—no.”

																																																																																						“Very good, then; good bye now, and I’ll call again in a minute.”

																																																																																						Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab leaning
																																																																																						over the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his two
																																																																																						hands into a trumpet and shouted—“No, Sir! No!” Upon which Ahab
																																																																																						retired, and Stubb returned to the Frenchman.

																																																																																						He now perceived that the Guernsey-man, who had just got into the
																																																																																						chains, and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his nose in a sort of
																																																																																						bag.

																																																																																						“What’s the matter with your nose, there?” said Stubb. “Broke it?”

																																																																																						“I wish it was broken, or that I didn’t have any nose at all!” answered
																																																																																						the Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very
																																																																																						much. “But what are you holding _yours_ for?”

																																																																																						“Oh, nothing! It’s a wax nose; I have to hold it on. Fine day, ain’t
																																																																																						it? Air rather gardenny, I should say; throw us a bunch of posies, will
																																																																																						ye, Bouton-de-Rose?”

																																																																																						“What in the devil’s name do you want here?” roared the Guernseyman,
																																																																																						flying into a sudden passion.

																																																																																						“Oh! keep cool—cool? yes, that’s the word! why don’t you pack those
																																																																																						whales in ice while you’re working at ’em? But joking aside, though; do
																																																																																						you know, Rose-bud, him during the interview.

																																																																																						By this time their destined victim appeared from his cabin. He was a
																																																																																						small and dark, but rather delicate looking man for a sea-captain, with
																																																																																						large whiskers and moustache, however; and wore a red cotton velvet
																																																																																						vest with watch-seals at his side. To this gentleman, Stubb was now
																																																																																						politely introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once ostentatiously put
																																																																																						on the aspect of interpreting between them.

																																																																																						“What shall I say to him first?” said he.

																																																																																						“Why,” said Stubb, eyeing the velvet vest and the watch and seals, “you
																																																																																						may as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort of babyish to me,
																																																																																						though I don’t pretend to be a judge.”

																																																																																						“He says, Monsieur,” said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his
																																																																																						captain, “that only yesterday his ship spoke a vessel, whose captain
																																																																																						and chief-mate, with six sailors, had all died of a fever caught from a
																																																																																						blasted whale they had brought alongside.”

																																																																																						Upon this the captain started, and eagerly desired to know more.

																																																																																						“What now?” said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.

																																																																																						“Why, since he takes it so easy, tell him that now I have eyed him
																																																																																						carefully, I’m quite certain that he’s no more fit to command a
																																																																																						whale-ship than a St. Jago monkey. In fact, tell him from me he’s a
																																																																																						baboon.”

																																																																																						“He vows and declares, Monsieur, that the other whale, the dried one,
																																																																																						is far more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures
																																																																																						us, as  the very heart of this plague, there stole a
																																																																																						faint stream of perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smells
																																																																																						without being absorbed by it, as one river will flow into and then
																																																																																						along with another, without at all blending with it for a time.

																																																																																						“I have it, I have it,” cried Stubb, with delight, striking something
																																																																																						in the subterranean regions, “a purse! a purse!”

																																																																																						Dropping his spade, he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls of
																																																																																						something that looked like ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled old
																																																																																						cheese; very unctuous and savory withal. You might easily dent it with
																																																																																						your thumb; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour. And this,
																																																																																						good friends, is ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce to any
																																																																																						druggist. Some six handfuls were obtained; but more was unavoidably
																																																																																						lost in the sea, and still more, perhaps, might have been secured were
																																																																																						it not for impatient Ahab’s loud command to Stubb to desist, and come
																																																																																						on board, else the ship would bid them good bye.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 92. Ambergris.

																																																																																						Now this ambergris is a very curious substance, and so important as an
																																																																																						article of commerce, that in 1791 a certain Nantucket-born Captain
																																																																																						Coffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that
																																																																																						subject. For at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day,
																																																																																						the precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem
																																																																																						to the learned. Though the word ambergris is but the French compound
																																																																																						for grey amber, yet the two substances are quite distinct. For amber,
																																																																																						though at times found on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some far
																																																																																						inland soils, whereas ambergris is never found except upon the sea.
																																																																																						Besides, amber is a hard, transparent, brittle, odorless substance,
																																																																																						used for mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and ornaments; but ay out their oil at sea
																																																																																						as the Southern ships have always done; but cutting up the fresh
																																																																																						blubber in small bits, thrust it through the bung holes of large casks,
																																																																																						and carry it home in that manner; the shortness of the season in those
																																																																																						Icy Seas, and the sudden and violent storms to which they are exposed,
																																																																																						forbidding any other course. The consequence is, that upon breaking
																																																																																						into the hold, and unloading one of these whale cemeteries, in the
																																																																																						Greenland dock, a savor is given forth somewhat similar to that arising
																																																																																						from excavating an old city grave-yard, for the foundations of a
																																																																																						Lying-in Hospital.

																																																																																						I partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against whalers may be
																																																																																						likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland, in former
																																																																																						times, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg, which
																																																																																						latter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack, in his great
																																																																																						work on Smells, a text-book on that subject. As its name imports
																																																																																						(smeer, fat; berg, to put up), this village was founded in order to
																																																																																						afford a place for the blubber of the Dutch whale fleet to be tried
																																																																																						out, without being taken home to Holland for that purpose. It was a
																																																																																						collection of furnaces, fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works
																																																																																						were in full operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor. But
																																																																																						all this is quite different with a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which in a
																																																																																						voyage of four years perhapsncy;
																																																																																						behold yon lustrous ebony, panelled in king’s cabinets. But Pip loved
																																																																																						life, and all life’s peaceable securities; so that the panic-striking
																																																																																						business in which he had somehow unaccountably become entrapped, had
																																																																																						most sadly blurred his brightness; though, as ere long will be seen,
																																																																																						what was thus temporarily subdued in him, in the end was destined to be
																																																																																						luridly illumined by strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed him
																																																																																						off to ten times the natural lustre with which in his native Tolland
																																																																																						County in Connecticut, he had once enlivened many a fiddler’s frolic on
																																																																																						the green; and at melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha! had turned
																																																																																						the round horizon into one star-belled tambourine. So, though in the
																																																																																						clear air of day, suspended against a blue-veined neck, the
																																																																																						pure-watered diamond drop will healthful glow; yet, when the cunning
																																																																																						jeweller would show you the diamond in its most impressive lustre, he
																																																																																						lays it against a gloomy ground, and then lights it up, not by the sun,
																																																																																						but by some unnatural gases. Then come out those fiery effulgences,
																																																																																						infernally superb; then the evil-blazing diamond, once the divinest
																																																																																						symbol of the crystal skies, looks like some crown-jewel stolen from
																																																																																						the King of Hell. But let us to the story.

																																																																																						It came to pass, that in the ambergris affair Stubb’s after-oarsman
																																																																																						chanced so to sprain his hand, as for a time to become quite maimed;
																																																																																						and, temporarily, Pip was put into his place.

																																																																																						The first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness;
																																																																																						but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and
																																																																																						therefore came off not altogether discreditably; though Stubb observing
																																																																																						him, took care, afterwards, to exhort him to cherish his courageousness
																																																																																						to the utmost, for he might often find it needful.

																																																																																						Now upon the second lowering, the boat paddled upon the whale; and hough man loved his fellow, yet man is a money-making animal,
																																																																																						which propensity too often interferes with his benevolence.

																																																																																						But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped again. It was
																																																																																						under very similar circumstances to the first performance; but this
																																																																																						time he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale started
																																																																																						to run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller’s
																																																																																						trunk. Alas! Stubb was but too true to his word. It was a beautiful,
																																																																																						bounteous, blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly
																																																																																						stretching away, all round, to the horizon, like gold-beater’s skin
																																																																																						hammered out to the extremest. Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip’s
																																																																																						ebon head showed like a head of cloves. No boat-knife was lifted when
																																																																																						he fell so rapidly astern. Stubb’s inexorable back was turned upon him;
																																																																																						and the whale was winged. In three minutes, a whole mile of shoreless
																																																																																						ocean was between Pip and Stubb. Out from the centre of the sea, poor
																																																																																						Pip turned his crisp, curling, black head to the sun, another lonely
																																																																																						castaway, though the loftiest and the brightest.

																																																																																						Now, in calm weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the
																																																																																						practised swimmer as to ride in a spring-carriage ashore. But the awful
																																																																																						lonesomeness is intolerable. The intense concentration of self in the
																																																																																						middle of such a heartless immensity, my God! who can tell it? Mark,
																																																																																						how when sailors in a dead calm bathe in the open sea—mark how closely
																																																																																						they hug their ship and only coast along her sides.

																																																																																						But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate? No;
																																																																																						he did not mewith
																																																																																						several others, I sat down before a large Constantine’s bath of it, I
																																																																																						found it strangely concreted into lumps, here and there rolling about
																																																																																						in the liquid part. It was our business to squeeze these lumps back
																																																																																						into fluid. A sweet and unctuous duty! No wonder that in old times this
																																																																																						sperm was such a favourite cosmetic. Such a clearer! such a sweetener!
																																																																																						such a softener! such a delicious molifier! After having my hands in it
																																																																																						for only a few minutes, my fingers felt like eels, and began, as it
																																																																																						were, to serpentine and spiralise.

																																																																																						As I sat there at my ease, cross-legged on the deck; after the bitter
																																																																																						exertion at the windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; the ship under
																																																																																						indolent sail, and gliding so serenely along; as I bathed my hands
																																																																																						among those soft, gentle globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almost
																																																																																						within the hour; as they richly broke to my fingers, and discharged all
																																																																																						their opulence, like fully ripe grapes their wine; as I snuffed up that
																																																																																						uncontaminated aroma,—literally and truly, like the smell of spring
																																																																																						violets; I declare to you, that for the time I lived as in a musky
																																																																																						meadow; I forgot all about our horrible oath; in that inexpressible
																																																																																						sperm, I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost began to credit
																																																																																						the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue in
																																																																																						allaying the heat of anger; while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely
																																																																																						free from all ill-will, or petulance, or malice, of any sort
																																																																																						whatsoever.

																																																																																						Squeeze! squeeze! squeeze! all the morning long; I squeezed that sperm
																																																																																						till I myself almost melted into it; I squeezed that sperm till a
																																																																																						strange sort of insanity came over me; and I found myself unwittingly
																																																																																						squeezing my co-laborers’ hands in it, mistaking their hands for the
																																																																																						gentle globules. Such an abounding, affectionate, friendly, loving
																																																																																						feeling did this avocation beget; thaat particular venison season contemporary with an
																																																																																						unusually fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne.

																																																																																						There is another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up in
																																																																																						the course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling
																																																																																						adequately to describe. It is called slobgollion; an appellation
																																																																																						original with the whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance.
																																																																																						It is an ineffably oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in the
																																																																																						tubs of sperm, after a prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting. I
																																																																																						hold it to be the wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case,
																																																																																						coalescing.

																																																																																						Gurry, so called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but
																																																																																						sometimes incidentally used by the sperm fishermen. It designates the
																																																																																						dark, glutinous substance which is scraped off the back of the
																																																																																						Greenland or right whale, and much of which covers the decks of those
																																																																																						inferior souls who hunt that ignoble Leviathan.

																																																																																						Nippers. Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale’s
																																																																																						vocabulary. But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so. A whaleman’s
																																																																																						nipper is a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering
																																																																																						part of Leviathan’s tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the
																																																																																						rest, is about the size of the iron part of a hoe. Edgewise moved along
																																																																																						the oily deck, it operates like a leathern squilgee; and by nameless
																																																																																						blandishments, as of magic, allures 
																																																																																						inside out, like a pantaloon leg; gives it a good stretching, so as
																																																																																						almost to double its diameter; and at last hangs it, well spread, in
																																																																																						the rigging, to dry. Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some
																																																																																						three feet of it, towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two
																																																																																						slits for arm-holes at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself
																																																																																						bodily into it. The mincer now stands before you invested in the full
																																																																																						canonicals of his calling. Immemorial to all his order, this
																																																																																						investiture alone will adequately protect him, while employed in the
																																																																																						peculiar functions of his office.

																																																																																						That office consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for the
																																																																																						pots; an operation which is conducted at a curious wooden horse,
																																																																																						planted endwise against the bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath
																																																																																						it, into which the minced pieces drop, fast as the sheets from a rapt
																																																																																						orator’s desk. Arrayed in decent black; occupying a conspicuous pulpit;
																																																																																						intent on bible leaves; what a candidate for an archbishopric, what a
																																																																																						lad for a Pope were this mincer!*

																																																																																						*Bible leaves! Bible leaves! This is the invariable cry from the mates
																																																																																						to the mincer. It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as
																																																																																						thin slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business of
																																																																																						boiling out the oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably
																																																																																						increased, besst fire in the try-works has to be fed
																																																																																						for a time with wood. After that no wood is used, except as a means of
																																																																																						quick ignition to the staple fuel. In a word, after being tried out,
																																																																																						the crisp, shrivelled blubber, now called scraps or fritters, still
																																																																																						contains considerable of its unctuous properties. These fritters feed
																																																																																						the flames. Like a plethoric burning martyr, or a self-consuming
																																																																																						misanthrope, once ignited, the whale supplies his own fuel and burns by
																																																																																						his own body. Would that he consumed his own smoke! for his smoke is
																																																																																						horrible to inhale, and inhale it you must, and not only that, but you
																																																																																						must live in it for the time. It has an unspeakable, wild, Hindoo odor
																																																																																						about it, such as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal pyres. It smells
																																																																																						like the left wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument for the
																																																																																						pit.

																																																																																						By midnight the works were in full operation. We were clear from the
																																																																																						carcase; sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild ocean
																																																																																						darkness was intense. But that darkness was licked up by the fierce
																																																																																						flames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and
																																																																																						illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek
																																																																																						fire. The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to
																																																																																						some vengeful deed. So the pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of the
																																																																																						bold Hydriote, Canaris, issuing from their midnight harbors, with broad
																																																																																						sheets of flame for sails, bore down upon the Turkish frigates, and
																																																																																						folded them in conflagrations.

																																																																																						The hatch, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a wide
																																																																																						hearth in front of them. Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of
																																																																																						the pagan harpooneers, always the whale-ship’s stokers. With huge
																																																																																						pronged poles they pitched hissire
																																																																																						open; I was half conscious of putting my fingers to the lids and
																																																																																						mechanically stretching them still further apart. But, spite of all
																																																																																						this, I could see no compass before me to steer by; though it seemed
																																																																																						but a minute since I had been watching the card, by the steady binnacle
																																																																																						lamp illuminating it. Nothing seemed before me but a jet gloom, now and
																																																																																						then made ghastly by flashes of redness. Uppermost was the impression,
																																																																																						that whatever swift, rushing thing I stood on was not so much bound to
																																																																																						any haven ahead as rushing from all havens astern. A stark, bewildered
																																																																																						feeling, as of death, came over me. Convulsively my hands grasped the
																																																																																						tiller, but with the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow, in
																																																																																						some enchanted way, inverted. My God! what is the matter with me?
																																																																																						thought I. Lo! in my brief sleep I had turned myself about, and was
																																																																																						fronting the ship’s stern, with my back to her prow and the compass. In
																																																																																						an instant I faced back, just in time to prevent the vessel from flying
																																																																																						up into the wind, and very probably capsizing her. How glad and how
																																																																																						grateful the relief from this unnatural hallucination of the night, and
																																																																																						the fatal contingency of being brought by the lee!

																																																																																						Look not too long in the face of the fire, O man! Never dream with thy
																																																																																						hand on the helm! Turn not thy back to the compass; accept the first
																																																																																						hint of te makes his berth an
																																																																																						Aladdin’s lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in the pitchiest night
																																																																																						the ship’s black hull still houses an illumination.

																																																																																						See with what entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of
																																																																																						lamps—often but old bottles and vials, though—to the copper cooler at
																																																																																						the try-works, and replenishes them there, as mugs of ale at a vat. He
																																																																																						burns, too, the purest of oil, in its unmanufactured, and, therefore,
																																																																																						unvitiated state; a fluid unknown to solar, lunar, or astral
																																																																																						contrivances ashore. It is sweet as early grass butter in April. He
																																																																																						goes and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its freshness and
																																																																																						genuineness, even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his own
																																																																																						supper of game.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 98. Stowing Down and Clearing Up.

																																																																																						Already has it been related how the great leviathan is afar off
																																																																																						descried from the mast-head; how he is chased over the watery moors,
																																																																																						and slaughtered in the valleys of the deep; how he is then towed
																																																																																						alongside and beheaded; and how (on the principle which entitled the
																																																																																						headsman of old to the garments in which the beheaded was killed) his
																																																																																						great padded surtout becomes the property of his executioner; how, in
																																																																																						due time, he is condemned to the pots, and, like Shadrach, Meshach, and
																																																																																						Abednego, his spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed through the
																																																																																						fire;—but now it remains to conclude the last chapter of this part of
																																																																																						the description by rehearsing—singing, if I may—the romantic proceeding
																																																																																						of decanting off his oil into the casks and striking them down into the
																																																																																						hold, where once again leviathan returns to his native profundities,
																																																																																						sliding along beneath the surface as before; but, alas! never more to
																																																																																						rise and blow.

																																																																																						While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the
																																																																																						six-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rolling
																																																																																						this way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed
																																																																																						ntious duty
																																																																																						is at last concluded, then the crew themselves proceed to their own
																																																																																						ablutions; shift themselves from top to toe; and finally issue to the
																																																																																						immaculate deck, fresh and all aglow, as bridegrooms new-leaped from
																																																																																						out the daintiest Holland.

																																																																																						Now, with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and
																																																																																						humorously discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics;
																																																																																						propose to mat the deck; think of having hanging to the top; object not
																																																																																						to taking tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle. To hint to
																																																																																						such musked mariners of oil, and bone, and blubber, were little short
																																																																																						of audacity. They know not the thing you distantly allude to. Away, and
																																																																																						bring us napkins!

																																																																																						But mark: aloft there, at the three mast heads, stand three men intent
																																																																																						on spying out more whales, which, if caught, infallibly will again soil
																																																																																						the old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spot
																																																																																						somewhere. Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest
																																																																																						uninterrupted labors, which know no night; continuing straight through
																																																																																						for ninety-six hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their
																																																																																						wrists with all day rowing on the Line,—they only step to the deck to
																																																																																						carry vast chains, and heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash,
																																																																																						yea, and in their very sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the
																																																																																						combined fires of the equatorial sun and the equatorial try-works;
																																																																																						when, on the heel of all this, they have finally bestirred themselves
																																																																																						to cleanse the ship, and make a spotless dairy room of it; many is the
																																																																																						time the poor fellows, just buttoning the necks of their clean frocks,
																																																																																						are startled by the cry of “There she blows!” and away they fly to
																																																																																						fight another whale, and go through the whole weary thing again. Oh! my
																																																																																						friends, but this is man-klate to any foulness, it still preserved its
																																																																																						Quito glow. Nor, though placed amongst a ruthless crew and every hour
																																																																																						passed by ruthless hands, and through the livelong nights shrouded with
																																																																																						thick darkness which might cover any pilfering approach, nevertheless
																																																																																						every sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left it last. For it
																																																																																						was set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and however
																																																																																						wanton in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as
																																																																																						the white whale’s talisman. Sometimes they talked it over in the weary
																																																																																						watch by night, wondering whose it was to be at last, and whether he
																																																																																						would ever live to spend it.

																																																																																						Now those noble golden coins of South America are as medals of the sun
																																																																																						and tropic token-pieces. Here palms, alpacas, and volcanoes; sun’s
																																																																																						disks and stars; ecliptics, horns-of-plenty, and rich banners waving,
																																																																																						are in luxuriant profusion stamped; so that the precious gold seems
																																																																																						almost to derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories, by
																																																																																						passing through those fancy mints, so Spanishly poetic.

																																																																																						It so chanced that the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthy
																																																																																						example of these things. On its round border it bore the letters,
																																																																																						REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR: QUITO. So this bright coin came from a country
																																																																																						planted in the middle of the world, and beneath the great equator, and
																																																																																						named after it; and it had been cast midway up the Andes, in the
																																																																																						unwaning clime that knows no autumn. Zoned by those letters you saw the
																																																																																						likeness of three Andes’ summits; from one a flame; a tower on another;
																																																																																						on the third a crowing cock; while arching over all was a segment of
																																																																																						the partitioned zodiac, the signs all marked  have seen doubloons before now in my voyagings; your doubloons
																																																																																						of old Spain, your doubloons of Peru, your doubloons of Chili, your
																																																																																						doubloons of Bolivia, your doubloons of Popayan; with plenty of gold
																																																																																						moidores and pistoles, and joes, and half joes, and quarter joes. What
																																																																																						then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator that is so killing
																																																																																						wonderful? By Golconda! let me read it once. Halloa! here’s signs and
																																																																																						wonders truly! That, now, is what old Bowditch in his Epitome calls the
																																																																																						zodiac, and what my almanac below calls ditto. I’ll get the almanac and
																																																																																						as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll’s arithmetic, I’ll try
																																																																																						my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer curvicues here with the
																																																																																						Massachusetts calendar. Here’s the book. Let’s see now. Signs and
																																																																																						wonders; and the sun, he’s always among ’em. Hem, hem, hem; here they
																																																																																						are—here they go—all alive:—Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the Bull and
																																																																																						Jimimi! here’s Gemini himself, or the Twins. Well; the sun he wheels
																																																																																						among ’em. Aye, here on the coin he’s just crossing the threshold
																																																																																						between two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring. Book! you lie there;
																																																																																						the fact is, you books must know your places. You’ll do to give us the
																																																																																						bare words and
																																																																																						now he’s back again; what does that mean? Hark! he’s muttering—voice
																																																																																						like an old worn-out coffee-mill. Prick ears, and listen!”

																																																																																						“If the White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, when
																																																																																						the sun stands in some one of these signs. I’ve studied signs, and know
																																																																																						their marks; they were taught me two score years ago, by the old witch
																																																																																						in Copenhagen. Now, in what sign will the sun then be? The horse-shoe
																																																																																						sign; for there it is, right opposite the gold. And what’s the
																																																																																						horse-shoe sign? The lion is the horse-shoe sign—the roaring and
																																																																																						devouring lion. Ship, old ship! my old head shakes to think of thee.”

																																																																																						“There’s another rendering now; but still one text. All sorts of men in
																																																																																						one kind of world, you see. Dodge again! here comes Queequeg—all
																																																																																						tattooing—looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself. What says the
																																																																																						Cannibal? As I live he’s comparing notes; looking at his thigh bone;
																																																																																						thinks the sun is in the thigh, or in the calf, or in the bowels, I
																																																																																						suppose, as the old women talk Surgeon’s Astronomy in the back country.
																																																																																						And by Jove, he’s found something there in the vicinity of his thigh—I
																																																																																						guess it’s Sagittarius, or the Archer. No: he don’t know what to make
																																																																																						of the doubloon; he takes it for an old button off some king’s
																																																																																						trowsers. But, aside again! here comes that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tail
																																																																																						coiled out of sight as usual, oakum in the toes of his pumps as usual.
																																																																																						What does he say, with that look of his? Ah, only makes a sign to the
																																																																																						sign and bows himself; there is a sun on the coinâcarelessly reclining in his own boat’s
																																																																																						bow. He was a darkly-tanned, burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, of
																																																																																						sixty or thereabouts, dressed in a spacious roundabout, that hung round
																																																																																						him in festoons of blue pilot-cloth; and one empty arm of this jacket
																																																																																						streamed behind him like the broidered arm of a hussar’s surcoat.

																																																																																						“Hast seen the White Whale?”

																																																																																						“See you this?” and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden it,
																																																																																						he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden
																																																																																						head like a mallet.

																																																																																						“Man my boat!” cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about the oars near
																																																																																						him—“Stand by to lower!”

																																																																																						In less than a minute, without quitting his little craft, he and his
																																																																																						crew were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of the
																																																																																						stranger. But here a curious difficulty presented itself. In the
																																																																																						excitement of the moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his
																																																																																						leg he had never once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his
																																																																																						own, and then it was always by an ingenious and very handy mechanical
																																																																																						contrivance peculiar to the Pequod, and a thing not to be rigged and
																																																																																						shipped in any other vessel at a moment’s warning. Now, it is no very
																																																																																						easy matter for anybody—except those who are almost hourly used to it,
																																																																																						like whalemen—to clamber up a ship’s side from a boat on the open sea;
																																																																																						for the great swells now lift uised on the Line,”
																																																																																						began the Englishman. “I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time.
																																																																																						Well, one day we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boat
																																																																																						fastened to one of them; a regular circus horse he was, too, that went
																																																																																						milling and milling round so, that my boat’s crew could only trim dish,
																																																																																						by sitting all their sterns on the outer gunwale. Presently up breaches
																																																																																						from the bottom of the sea a bouncing great whale, with a milky-white
																																																																																						head and hump, all crows’ feet and wrinkles.”

																																																																																						“It was he, it was he!” cried Ahab, suddenly letting out his suspended
																																																																																						breath.

																																																																																						“And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin.”

																																																																																						“Aye, aye—they were mine—_my_ irons,” cried Ahab, exultingly—“but on!”

																																																																																						“Give me a chance, then,” said the Englishman, good-humoredly. “Well,
																																																																																						this old great-grandfather, with the white head and hump, runs all
																																																																																						afoam into the pod, and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line!

																																																																																						“Aye, I see!—wanted to part it; free the fast-fish—an old trick—I know
																																																																																						him.”

																																																																																						“How it was exactly,” continued the one-armed commander, “I do not
																																																																																						know; but in biting the line, it got foul of his teeth, caught there
																																																																																						somehow; but we didn’t know it then; so that when we afterwards pulled
																																																																																						on the line, bounce we came plump on to his hump! instead of the other
																																																																																						whale’s; that went off to windward, all fluking. Seeing how matters
																																																																																						stoodwent on to do his captain’s bidding.

																																																																																						“It was a shocking bad wound,” began the whale-surgeon; “and, taking my
																																																																																						advice, Captain Boomer here, stood our old Sammy—”

																																																																																						“Samuel Enderby is the name of my ship,” interrupted the one-armed
																																																																																						captain, addressing Ahab; “go on, boy.”

																																																																																						“Stood our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazing
																																																																																						hot weather there on the Line. But it was no use—I did all I could; sat
																																																																																						up with him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet—”

																																																																																						“Oh, very severe!” chimed in the patient himself; then suddenly
																																																																																						altering his voice, “Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, till
																																																																																						he couldn’t see to put on the bandages; and sending me to bed, half
																																																																																						seas over, about three o’clock in the morning. Oh, ye stars! he sat up
																																																																																						with me indeed, and was very severe in my diet. Oh! a great watcher,
																																																																																						and very dietetically severe, is Dr. Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laugh
																																																																																						out! why don’t ye? You know you’re a precious jolly rascal.) But, heave
																																																																																						ahead, boy, I’d rather be killed by you than kept alive by any other
																																																																																						man.”

																																																																																						“My captain, you must have ere this perceived, respected sir”—said the
																																																																																						imperturbable godly-looking Bunger, slightly bowing to Ahab—“is apt to
																																																																																						be facetious at times; he svidence, that it is quite impossible for him to completely digest
																																																																																						even a man’s arm? And he knows it too. So that what you take for the
																																																																																						White Whale’s malice is only his awkwardness. For he never means to
																																																																																						swallow a single limb; he only thinks to terrify by feints. But
																																																																																						sometimes he is like the old juggling fellow, formerly a patient of
																																																																																						mine in Ceylon, that making believe swallow jack-knives, once upon a
																																																																																						time let one drop into him in good earnest, and there it stayed for a
																																																																																						twelvemonth or more; when I gave him an emetic, and he heaved it up in
																																																																																						small tacks, d’ye see. No possible way for him to digest that
																																																																																						jack-knife, and fully incorporate it into his general bodily system.
																																																																																						Yes, Captain Boomer, if you are quick enough about it, and have a mind
																																																																																						to pawn one arm for the sake of the privilege of giving decent burial
																																																																																						to the other, why in that case the arm is yours; only let the whale
																																																																																						have another chance at you shortly, that’s all.”

																																																																																						“No, thank ye, Bunger,” said the English Captain, “he’s welcome to the
																																																																																						arm he has, since I can’t help it, and didn’t know him then; but not to
																																																																																						another one. No more White Whales for me; I’ve lowered for him once,
																																																																																						and that has satisfied me. There would be great glory in killing him, I
																																																																																						know that; and there is a ship-load of precious sperm in him, but, hark
																																																																																						ye, he’s best let alone; don’t you thinecious sperm,
																																																																																						the Amelia’s example was soon followed by other ships, English and
																																																																																						American, and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the Pacific were
																																																																																						thrown open. But not content with this good deed, the indefatigable
																																																																																						house again bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons—how many, their
																																																																																						mother only knows—and under their immediate auspices, and partly, I
																																																																																						think, at their expense, the British government was induced to send the
																																																																																						sloop-of-war Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South
																																																																																						Sea. Commanded by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattling
																																																																																						voyage of it, and did some service; how much does not appear. But this
																																																																																						is not all. In 1819, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship
																																																																																						of their own, to go on a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan.
																																																																																						That ship—well called the “Syren”—made a noble experimental cruise; and
																																																																																						it was thus that the great Japanese Whaling Ground first became
																																																																																						generally known. The Syren in this famous voyage was commanded by a
																																																																																						Captain Coffin, a Nantucketer.

																																																																																						All honor to the Enderbies, therefore, whose house, I think, exists to
																																																																																						the present day; though doubtless the original Samuel must long ago
																																																																																						have slipped his cable for the great South Sea of the other world.

																																																																																						The ship named after him was worthy of the honor, being a very fast
																																																																																						sailer and a noble craft every way. I boarded her once at midnight
																																																																																						somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank good flip down in thet
																																																																																						in the fishery; and what is yet more, their fat old fashions, touching
																																																																																						plenty to eat and drink. For, as a general thing, the English
																																																																																						merchant-ship scrimps her crew; but not so the English whaler. Hence,
																																																																																						in the English, this thing of whaling good cheer is not normal and
																																																																																						natural, but incidental and particular; and, therefore, must have some
																																																																																						special origin, which is here pointed out, and will be still further
																																																																																						elucidated.

																																																																																						During my researches in the Leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon an
																																																																																						ancient Dutch volume, which, by the musty whaling smell of it, I knew
																																																																																						must be about whalers. The title was, “Dan Coopman,” wherefore I
																																																																																						concluded that this must be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam
																																																																																						cooper in the fishery, as every whale ship must carry its cooper. I was
																																																																																						reinforced in this opinion by seeing that it was the production of one
																																																																																						“Fitz Swackhammer.” But my friend Dr. Snodhead, a very learned man,
																																																																																						professor of Low Dutch and High German in the college of Santa Claus
																																																																																						and St. Pott’s, to whom I handed the work for translation, giving him a
																																																																																						box of sperm candles for his trouble—this same Dr. Snodhead, so soon as
																																																																																						he spied the book, assured me that “Dan Coopman” did not mean “The
																																																																																						Cooper,” but “The Merchant.” In short, this ancient and learned Low
																																																																																						Dutch book treated of the commerce of Holland; and, among other
																																																																																						subjects, contained a very interesting account of its whale fishery.
																																																																																						And in this chapter it was, headed, “Smeer,” or “Fat,” that I found a
																																																																																						long detailed list of the outfits for the larders t no more; enough has been said to show that the old Dutch whalers of
																																																																																						two or three centuries ago were high livers; and that the English
																																																																																						whalers have not neglected so excellent an example. For, say they, when
																																																																																						cruising in an empty ship, if you can get nothing better out of the
																																																																																						world, get a good dinner out of it, at least. And this empties the
																																																																																						decanter.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 102. A Bower in the Arsacides.

																																																																																						Hitherto, in descriptively treating of the Sperm Whale, I have chiefly
																																																																																						dwelt upon the marvels of his outer aspect; or separately and in detail
																																																																																						upon some few interior structural features. But to a large and thorough
																																																																																						sweeping comprehension of him, it behooves me now to unbutton him still
																																																																																						further, and untagging the points of his hose, unbuckling his garters,
																																																																																						and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of the joints of his innermost
																																																																																						bones, set him before you in his ultimatum; that is to say, in his
																																																																																						unconditional skeleton.

																																																																																						But how now, Ishmael? How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in the
																																																																																						fishery, pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the
																																																																																						whale? Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your capstan, deliver lectures
																																																																																						on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the windlass, hold up a
																																																																																						specimen rib for exhibition? Explain thyself, Ishmael. Can you land a
																																																																																						full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook dishes a
																																																																																						roast-pig? Surely not. A veritable witness have you hitherto the trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap; the
																																																																																						industrious earth beneath was as a weaver’s loom, with a gorgeous
																																																																																						carpet on it, whereof the ground-vine tendrils formed the warp and
																																																																																						woof, and the living flowers the figures. All the trees, with all their
																																																																																						laden branches; all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the
																																																																																						message-carrying air; all these unceasingly were active. Through the
																																																																																						lacings of the leaves, the great sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving
																																																																																						the unwearied verdure. Oh, busy weaver! unseen weaver!—pause!—one
																																																																																						word!—whither flows the fabric? what palace may it deck? wherefore all
																																																																																						these ceaseless toilings? Speak, weaver!—stay thy hand!—but one single
																																																																																						word with thee! Nay—the shuttle flies—the figures float from forth the
																																																																																						loom; the freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away. The weaver-god,
																																																																																						he weaves; and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears no mortal
																																																																																						voice; and by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are deafened;
																																																																																						and only when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that speak
																																																																																						through it. For even so it is in all material factories. The spoken
																																																																																						words that are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words
																																																																																						are plainly heard without the walls, bursting from the openoprietors upon similar
																																																																																						grounds. King Tranquo seizing his because he wanted it; and Sir
																																																																																						Clifford, because he was lord of the seignories of those parts. Sir
																																																																																						Clifford’s whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a great
																																																																																						chest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bony
																																																																																						cavities—spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan—and swing all day upon
																																																																																						his lower jaw. Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and
																																																																																						shutters; and a footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of
																																																																																						keys at his side. Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep
																																																																																						at the whispering gallery in the spinal column; threepence to hear the
																																																																																						echo in the hollow of his cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalled
																																																																																						view from his forehead.

																																																																																						The skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are copied
																																																																																						verbatim from my right arm, where I had them tattooed; as in my wild
																																																																																						wanderings at that period, there was no other secure way of preserving
																																																																																						such valuable statistics. But as I was crowded for space, and wished
																																																																																						the other parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was then
																																																																																						composing—at least, what untattooed parts might remain—I did not
																																																																																						trouble myself with the odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at all
																																																																																						enter into a congenial admeasurement of the whale.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 103. Measurement of The hey all bore
																																																																																						a seemly correspondence to their length. The middle ribs were the most
																																																																																						arched. In some of the Arsacides they are used for beams whereon to lay
																																																																																						footpath bridges over small streams.

																																																																																						In considering these ribs, I could not but be struck anew with the
																																																																																						circumstance, so variously repeated in this book, that the skeleton of
																																																																																						the whale is by no means the mould of his invested form. The largest of
																																																																																						the Tranque ribs, one of the middle ones, occupied that part of the
																																																																																						fish which, in life, is greatest in depth. Now, the greatest depth of
																																																																																						the invested body of this particular whale must have been at least
																																																																																						sixteen feet; whereas, the corresponding rib measured but little more
																																																																																						than eight feet. So that this rib only conveyed half of the true notion
																																																																																						of the living magnitude of that part. Besides, for some way, where I
																																																																																						now saw but a naked spine, all that had been once wrapped round with
																																																																																						tons of added bulk in flesh, muscle, blood, and bowels. Still more, for
																																																																																						the ample fins, I here saw but a few disordered joints; and in place of
																																																																																						the weighty and majestic, but boneless flukes, an utter blank!

																																																																																						How vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid untravelled man to try
																																																																																						to comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely poring over his
																																																																																						dead attenuated skeleto with me, writing of
																																																																																						this Leviathan? Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard
																																																																																						capitals. Give me a condor’s quill! Give me Vesuvius’ crater for an
																																																																																						inkstand! Friends, hold my arms! For in the mere act of penning my
																																																																																						thoughts of this Leviathan, they weary me, and make me faint with their
																																																																																						outreaching comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include the whole
																																																																																						circle of the sciences, and all the generations of whales, and men, and
																																																																																						mastodons, past, present, and to come, with all the revolving panoramas
																																																																																						of empire on earth, and throughout the whole universe, not excluding
																																																																																						its suburbs. Such, and so magnifying, is the virtue of a large and
																																																																																						liberal theme! We expand to its bulk. To produce a mighty book, you
																																																																																						must choose a mighty theme. No great and enduring volume can ever be
																																																																																						written on the flea, though many there be who have tried it.

																																																																																						Ere entering upon the subject of Fossil Whales, I present my
																																																																																						credentials as a geologist, by stating that in my miscellaneous time I
																																																																																						have been a stone-mason, and also a great digger of ditches, canals and
																																																																																						wells, wine-vaults, cellars, and cisterns of all sorts. Likewise, by
																																																																																						way of preliminary, I desire to remind the reader, that while in the
																																																																																						earlier geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now
																																																																																						almost completely extinct; the subsequent relics discovered in what are
																																																																																						called the Tertiary formations seem the connecting, or at any rate
																																																																																						intercepted links, between the antichronical creatures, and those whose
																																																																																						remote posterity are said to have entered the Ark; all the Fossil
																																																																																						Whales hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period, which is the
																																																																																						last preceding the superficial formations. And though none of them
																																																																																						precisely answer to any known species of the present time, they are yet
																																																																																						sufficiently akin000 miles of this world’s circumference, not an
																																																																																						inhabitable hand’s breadth of land was visible. Then the whole world
																																																																																						was the whale’s; and, king of creation, he left his wake along the
																																																																																						present lines of the Andes and the Himmalehs. Who can show a pedigree
																																																																																						like Leviathan? Ahab’s harpoon had shed older blood than the Pharaoh’s.
																																																																																						Methuselah seems a school-boy. I look round to shake hands with Shem. I
																																																																																						am horror-struck at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of the
																																																																																						unspeakable terrors of the whale, which, having been before all time,
																																																																																						must needs exist after all humane ages are over.

																																																																																						But not alone has this Leviathan left his pre-adamite traces in the
																																																																																						stereotype plates of nature, and in limestone and marl bequeathed his
																																																																																						ancient bust; but upon Egyptian tablets, whose antiquity seems to claim
																																																																																						for them an almost fossiliferous character, we find the unmistakable
																																																																																						print of his fin. In an apartment of the great temple of Denderah, some
																																																																																						fifty years ago, there was discovered upon the granite ceiling a
																																																																																						sculptured and painted planisphere, abounding in centaurs, griffins,
																																																																																						and dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial globe
																																																																																						of the moderns. Gliding among them, old Leviathan swam as of yore; was
																																																																																						there swimming in that planisphere, centuries before Solomon was
																																																																																						cradled.

																																																																																						Nor must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquity
																																																																																						of the whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down by
																																																																																						the venerable John Leo, the old Barbary traveller.

																																																																																						“Not far from the Sea-side, they have a Temple, the Rafters and Beams
																																																																																						of wothers which measured eight hundred feet in length—Rope
																																																																																						Walks and Thames Tunnels of Whales! And even in the days of Banks and
																																																																																						Solander, Cooke’s naturalists, we find a Danish member of the Academy
																																																																																						of Sciences setting down certain Iceland Whales (reydan-siskur, or
																																																																																						Wrinkled Bellies) at one hundred and twenty yards; that is, three
																																																																																						hundred and sixty feet. And Lacépède, the French naturalist, in his
																																																																																						elaborate history of whales, in the very beginning of his work (page
																																																																																						3), sets down the Right Whale at one hundred metres, three hundred and
																																																																																						twenty-eight feet. And this work was published so late as A.D. 1825.

																																																																																						But will any whaleman believe these stories? No. The whale of to-day is
																																																																																						as big as his ancestors in Pliny’s time. And if ever I go where Pliny
																																																																																						is, I, a whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so.
																																																																																						Because I cannot understand how it is, that while the Egyptian mummies
																																																																																						that were buried thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do not
																																																																																						measure so much in their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks;
																																																																																						and while the cattle and other animals sculptured on the oldest
																																																																																						Egyptian and Nineveh tablets, by the relative proportions in which they
																																																																																						are drawn, just acattered solitaries, yokes,
																																																																																						and pods, and schools of other days are now aggregated into vast but
																																																																																						widely separated, unfrequent armies. That is all. And equally
																																																																																						fallacious seems the conceit, that because the so-called whale-bone
																																																																																						whales no longer haunt many grounds in former years abounding with
																																																																																						them, hence that species also is declining. For they are only being
																																																																																						driven from promontory to cape; and if one coast is no longer enlivened
																																																																																						with their jets, then, be sure, some other and remoter strand has been
																																																																																						very recently startled by the unfamiliar spectacle.

																																																																																						Furthermore: concerning these last mentioned Leviathans, they have two
																																																																																						firm fortresses, which, in all human probability, will for ever remain
																																																																																						impregnable. And as upon the invasion of their valleys, the frosty
																																																																																						Swiss have retreated to their mountains; so, hunted from the savannas
																																																																																						and glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales can at last resort
																																																																																						to their Polar citadels, and diving under the ultimate glassy barriers
																																																																																						and walls there, come up among icy fields and floes; and in a charmed
																																																																																						circle of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from man.

																																																																																						But as perhaps fifty of these whale-bone whales are harpooned for one
																																																																																						cachalot, some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this
																																																																																						positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions.
																																																																																						But though for some time past a number of these whales, not less than
																																																																																						13,000, have been annually slain on the norântire, and to all appearances
																																																																																						lusty, yet Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy.

																																																																																						And, indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all his
																																																																																						pervading, mad recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to the
																																																																																						condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood. For it had not
																																																																																						been very long prior to the Pequod’s sailing from Nantucket, that he
																																																																																						had been found one night lying prone upon the ground, and insensible;
																																																																																						by some unknown, and seemingly inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, his
																																																																																						ivory limb having been so violently displaced, that it had stake-wise
																																																																																						smitten, and all but pierced his groin; nor was it without extreme
																																																																																						difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely cured.

																																																																																						Nor, at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all
																																																																																						the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of
																																																																																						a former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the most
																																																																																						poisonous reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as
																																																																																						the sweetest songster of the grove; so, equally with every felicity,
																																																																																						all miserable events do naturally beget their like. Yea, more than
																																																																																						equally, thought Ationary appeared before him, he bade him without
																																																																																						delay set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him
																																																																																						supplied with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which
																																																																																						had thus far been accumulated on the voyage, in order that a careful
																																																																																						selection of the stoutest, clearest-grained stuff might be secured.
																																																																																						This done, the carpenter received orders to have the leg completed that
																																																																																						night; and to provide all the fittings for it, independent of those
																																																																																						pertaining to the distrusted one in use. Moreover, the ship’s forge was
																																																																																						ordered to be hoisted out of its temporary idleness in the hold; and,
																																																																																						to accelerate the affair, the blacksmith was commanded to proceed at
																																																																																						once to the forging of whatever iron contrivances might be needed.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 107. The Carpenter.

																																																																																						Seat thyself sultanically among the moons of Saturn, and take high
																																																																																						abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder, a grandeur, and a woe. But
																																																																																						from the same point, take mankind in mass, and for the most part, they
																																																																																						seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both contemporary and hereditary.
																																																																																						But most humble though he was, and far from furnishing an example of
																																																																																						the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod’s carpenter was no duplicate;
																																																																																						hence, he now comes in person on this stage.

																																																																																						Like all sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belonging
																																																																																						to whaling vessels, he was, to a certain off-handed, practical extent,
																																																																																						alike experienced in numerous trades and callings colla more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal
																																																																																						stolidity as it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into the
																																																																																						surrounding infinite of things, that it seemed one with the general
																																																																																						stolidity discernible in the whole visible world; which while
																																																																																						pauselessly active in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace,
																																																																																						and ignores you, though you dig foundations for cathedrals. Yet was
																																																																																						this half-horrible stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an
																																																																																						all-ramifying heartlessness;—yet was it oddly dashed at times, with an
																																																																																						old, crutch-like, antediluvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreaked
																																																																																						now and then with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might have
																																																																																						served to pass the time during the midnight watch on the bearded
																																																																																						forecastle of Noah’s ark. Was it that this old carpenter had been a
																																																																																						life-long wanderer, whose much rolling, to and fro, not only had
																																																																																						gathered no moss; but what is more, had rubbed off whatever small
																																																																																						outward clingings might have originally pertained to him? He was a
																																																																																						stript abstract; an unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-born
																																																																																						babe; living without premeditated reference to this world or the next.
																																																																																						You might almost say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him
																																																																																						involved a sort of unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did
																																																																																						not seem to work so much by reason or by instinct, or simply because he
																																																																																						had been tutored to it, or byinish on. Time, time; if I but only had the
																																																																																						time, I could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever (_sneezes_)
																																																																																						scraped to a lady in a parlor. Those buckskin legs and calves of legs
																																																																																						I’ve seen in shop windows wouldn’t compare at all. They soak water,
																																																																																						they do; and of course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored
																																																																																						(_sneezes_) with washes and lotions, just like live legs. There; before
																																																																																						I saw it off, now, I must call his old Mogulship, and see whether the
																																																																																						length will be all right; too short, if anything, I guess. Ha! that’s
																																																																																						the heel; we are in luck; here he comes, or it’s somebody else, that’s
																																																																																						certain.

																																																																																						AHAB (_advancing_). (_During the ensuing scene, the carpenter continues
																																																																																						sneezing at times._)

																																																																																						Well, manmaker!

																																																																																						Just in time, sir. If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length.
																																																																																						Let me measure, sir.

																																																																																						Measured for a leg! good. Well, it’s not the first time. About it!
																																																																																						There; keep thy finger on it. This is a cogent vice thou hast here,
																																																																																						carpenter; let me feel its grip once. So, so; it does pinch some.

																																																																																						Oh, sir, it will break bones—beware, beware!

																																																																																						No fear; I like a good grip; I like to feel something in this slippery
																																																																																						world that can hold, man. What’s Promethow, here is only one distinct leg to the eye, yet two to the
																																																																																						soul. Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there, there to
																																																																																						a hair, do I. Is’t a riddle?

																																																																																						I should humbly call it a poser, sir.

																																																																																						Hist, then. How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing
																																																																																						may not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where
																																																																																						thou now standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite? In thy most
																																																																																						solitary hours, then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers? Hold, don’t
																																																																																						speak! And if I still feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be
																																																																																						now so long dissolved; then, why mayst not thou, carpenter, feel the
																																																																																						fiery pains of hell for ever, and without a body? Hah!

																																																																																						Good Lord! Truly, sir, if it comes to that, I must calculate over
																																																																																						again; I think I didn’t carry a small figure, sir.

																																																																																						Look ye, pudding-heads should never grant premises.—How long before the
																																																																																						leg is done?

																																																																																						Perhaps an hour, sir.

																																																																																						Bungle away at it then, and bring it to me (_turns to go_). Oh, Life!
																																																																																						Here I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing debtor to this
																																																																																						blockhead for a bone to stand on! Cursed be that mortal
																																																																																						inter-indebtedness which will not do away with ledgers. I would be free
																																																																																						as air; and I’m down in the whole world’s books. I am so rich, I could
																																																																																						haleakage in the
																																																																																						precious cargo.

																																																																																						Now, from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and
																																																																																						the Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from
																																																																																						the China waters into the Pacific. And so Starbuck found Ahab with a
																																																																																						general chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him; and
																																																																																						another separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the
																																																																																						Japanese islands—Niphon, Matsmai, and Sikoke. With his snow-white new
																																																																																						ivory leg braced against the screwed leg of his table, and with a long
																																																																																						pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his hand, the wondrous old man, with
																																																																																						his back to the gangway door, was wrinkling his brow, and tracing his
																																																																																						old courses again.

																																																																																						“Who’s there?” hearing the footstep at the door, but not turning round
																																																																																						to it. “On deck! Begone!”

																																																																																						“Captain Ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir.
																																																																																						We must up Burtons and break out.”

																																																																																						“Up Burtons and break out? Now that we are nearing Japan; heave-to here
																																																																																						for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?”

																																																																																						“Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make
																																																																																						good in a year. What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth
																																																																																						saving, sir.”

																																																																																						ât in the main-hold.”

																																																																																						It were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting
																																																																																						Starbuck, Ahab thus acted. It may have been a flash of honesty in him;
																																																																																						or mere prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously
																																																																																						forbade the slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient,
																																																																																						in the important chief officer of his ship. However it was, his orders
																																																																																						were executed; and the Burtons were hoisted.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 110. Queequeg in His Coffin.

																																																																																						Upon searching, it was found that the casks last struck into the hold
																																																																																						were perfectly sound, and that the leak must be further off. So, it
																																																																																						being calm weather, they broke out deeper and deeper, disturbing the
																																																																																						slumbers of the huge ground-tier butts; and from that black midnight
																																																																																						sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above. So deep did they
																																																																																						go; and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the lowermost
																																																																																						puncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone
																																																																																						cask containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted
																																																																																						placards, vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood.
																																																																																						Tierce after tierce, too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of
																																																																																						staves, and iron bundles of hoops, were h in his
																																																																																						swaying hammock, and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to his
																																																																																						final rest, and the ocean’s invisible flood-tide lifted him higher and
																																																																																						higher towards his destined heaven.

																																																																																						Not a man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself,
																																																																																						what he thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favour he
																																																																																						asked. He called one to him in the grey morning watch, when the day was
																																																																																						just breaking, and taking his hand, said that while in Nantucket he had
																																																																																						chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood, like the rich
																																																																																						war-wood of his native isle; and upon inquiry, he had learned that all
																																																																																						whalemen who died in Nantucket, were laid in those same dark canoes,
																																																																																						and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for it was
																																																																																						not unlike the custom of his own race, who, after embalming a dead
																																																																																						warrior, stretched him out in his canoe, and so left him to be floated
																																																																																						away to the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that the
																																																																																						stars are isles, but that far beyond all visible horizons, their own
																																																																																						mild, uncontinented seas, interflow with the blue heavens; and so form
																																																																																						the white breakers of the milky way. He added, that he shuddered at the
																																																																																						thought of being buried in his hammock, according to the usual
																																																																																						sea-custom, tossed like something vile to the death-devouring sharks.
																																																																																						No: he desired a canohere lay
																																																																																						Queequeg in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in
																																																																																						view. “Rarmai” (it will do; it is easy), he murmured at last, and
																																																																																						signed to be replaced in his hammock.

																																																																																						But ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily hovering near by all
																																																																																						this while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with soft sobbings, took
																																																																																						him by the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine.

																																																																																						“Poor rover! will ye never have done with all this weary roving? where
																																																																																						go ye now? But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where
																																																																																						the beaches are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little
																																																																																						errand for me? Seek out one Pip, who’s now been missing long: I think
																																																																																						he’s in those far Antilles. If ye find him, then comfort him; for he
																																																																																						must be very sad; for look! he’s left his tambourine behind;—I found
																																																																																						it. Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! Now, Queequeg, die; and I’ll beat ye your
																																																																																						dying march.”

																																																																																						“I have heard,” murmured Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, “that in
																																																																																						violent fevers, men, all ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues; and
																																																																																						that when the mystery is probed, it turns out always that in their
																																																																																						wholly forgotten childhood those ancient tongues had been really sbeen the work of a departed prophet
																																																																																						and seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic marks, had written
																																																																																						out on his body a complete theory of the heavens and the earth, and a
																																																																																						mystical treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that Queequeg in
																																																																																						his own proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous work in one
																																																																																						volume; but whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his own
																																																																																						live heart beat against them; and these mysteries were therefore
																																																																																						destined in the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon
																																																																																						they were inscribed, and so be unsolved to the last. And this thought
																																																																																						it must have been which suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his,
																																																																																						when one morning turning away from surveying poor Queequeg—“Oh,
																																																																																						devilish tantalization of the gods!”


																																																																																						CHAPTER 111. The Pacific.

																																																																																						When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged at last upon the great
																																																																																						South Sea; were it not for other things, I could have greeted my dear
																																																																																						Pacific with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication of my
																																																																																						youth was answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a
																																																																																						thousand leagues of blue.

																																																																																						There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea, whose gently
																																																																																						awful stirrings seem to Nevertheless, this old man’s was a
																																																																																						patient hammer wielded by a patient arm. No murmur, no impatience, no
																																																																																						petulance did come from him. Silent, slow, and solemn; bowing over
																																																																																						still further his chronically broken back, he toiled away, as if toil
																																																																																						were life itself, and the heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beating
																																																																																						of his heart. And so it was.—Most miserable!

																																																																																						A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing
																																																																																						yawing in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the
																																																																																						curiosity of the mariners. And to the importunity of their persisted
																																																																																						questionings he had finally given in; and so it came to pass that every
																																																																																						one now knew the shameful story of his wretched fate.

																																																																																						Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter’s midnight, on the road
																																																																																						running between two country towns, the blacksmith half-stupidly felt
																																																																																						the deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge in a leaning,
																																																																																						dilapidated barn. The issue was, the loss of the extremities of both
																																																																																						feet. Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four
																																																																																						acts of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied
																																																																																						fifth act of the grief of his life’s drama.

																																																																																						He was an old man, who wonderful, new-life adventures; and from the hearts of
																																																																																						infinite Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing to them—“Come hither,
																																																																																						broken-hearted; here is another life without the guilt of intermediate
																																																																																						death; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them. Come
																																																																																						hither! bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred and
																																																																																						abhorring, landed world, is more oblivious than death. Come hither! put
																																																																																						up _thy_ gravestone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, till
																																																																																						we marry thee!”

																																																																																						Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sunrise, and by
																																																																																						fall of eve, the blacksmith’s soul responded, Aye, I come! And so Perth
																																																																																						went a-whaling.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 113. The Forge.

																																																																																						With matted beard, and swathed in a bristling shark-skin apron, about
																																																																																						mid-day, Perth was standing between his forge and anvil, the latter
																																																																																						placed upon an iron-wood log, with one hand holding a pike-head in the
																																																																																						coals, and with the other at his forge’s lungs, when Captain Ahab came
																																																																																						along, carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking leathern bag. While
																																																																																						yet a little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused; till at last,
																																																																																						Perth, withdrawining the last one. “Work that over again, Perth.”

																																																																																						This done, Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one, when
																																																																																						Ahab stayed his hand, and said he would weld his own iron. As, then,
																																																																																						with regular, gasping hems, he hammered on the anvil, Perth passing to
																																																																																						him the glowing rods, one after the other, and the hard pressed forge
																																																																																						shooting up its intense straight flame, the Parsee passed silently, and
																																																																																						bowing over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking some curse or
																																																																																						some blessing on the toil. But, as Ahab looked up, he slid aside.

																																																																																						“What’s that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?” muttered
																																																																																						Stubb, looking on from the forecastle. “That Parsee smells fire like a
																																																																																						fusee; and smells of it himself, like a hot musket’s powder-pan.”

																																																																																						At last the shank, in one complete rod, received its final heat; and as
																																																																																						Perth, to temper it, plunged it all hissing into the cask of water near
																																																																																						by, the scalding steam shot up into Ahab’s bent face.

																																																																																						“Would’st thou brand me, Perth?” wincing for a moment with the pain;
																																																																																						“have I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?”

																																																																																						“Pray God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab. Is not this
																																																																																						harpoon for the White Whale?”

																																																																																						“For the white fiend! But n; afloat all day upon smooth, slow
																																																																																						heaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a birch canoe; and so
																																																																																						sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that like hearth-stone
																																																																																						cats they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of dreamy
																																																																																						quietude, when beholding the tranquil beauty and brilliancy of the
																																																																																						ocean’s skin, one forgets the tiger heart that pants beneath it; and
																																																																																						would not willingly remember, that this velvet paw but conceals a
																																																																																						remorseless fang.

																																																																																						These are the times, when in his whale-boat the rover softly feels a
																																																																																						certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the sea; that he
																																																																																						regards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship revealing
																																																																																						only the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not through high
																																																																																						rolling waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when
																																																																																						the western emigrants’ horses only show their erected ears, while their
																																																																																						hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.

																																																																																						The long-drawn virgin vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these
																																																																																						there steals the hush, the hum; you almost swear that play-wearied
																																																																																						children lie sleeping in these solitudes, in some gler rigging, on every side. Sideways
																																																																																						lashed in each of her three basketed tops were two barrels of sperm;
																																																																																						above which, in her top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender breakers of
																																																																																						the same precious fluid; and nailed to her main truck was a brazen
																																																																																						lamp.

																																																																																						As was afterwards learned, the Bachelor had met with the most
																																																																																						surprising success; all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in
																																																																																						the same seas numerous other vessels had gone entire months without
																																																																																						securing a single fish. Not only had barrels of beef and bread been
																																																																																						given away to make room for the far more valuable sperm, but additional
																																																																																						supplemental casks had been bartered for, from the ships she had met;
																																																																																						and these were stowed along the deck, and in the captain’s and
																																																																																						officers’ state-rooms. Even the cabin table itself had been knocked
																																																																																						into kindling-wood; and the cabin mess dined off the broad head of an
																																																																																						oil-butt, lashed down to the floor for a centrepiece. In the
																																																																																						forecastle, the sailors had actually caulked and pitched their chests,
																																																																																						and filled them; it was humorously added, that the cook had clapped a
																																																																																						head on his largest boiler, and filled it; that the steward hadheeding their gaze for
																																																																																						the lively revelry they were in. And as Ahab, leaning over the
																																																																																						taffrail, eyed the homeward-bound craft, he took from his pocket a
																																																																																						small vial of sand, and then looking from the ship to the vial, seemed
																																																																																						thereby bringing two remote associations together, for that vial was
																																																																																						filled with Nantucket soundings.


																																																																																						CHAPTER 116. The Dying Whale.

																																																																																						Not seldom in this life, when, on the right side, fortune’s favourites
																																																																																						sail close by us, we, though all adroop before, catch somewhat of the
																																																																																						rushing breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging sails fill out. So seemed
																																																																																						it with the Pequod. For next day after encountering the gay Bachelor,
																																																																																						whales were seen and four were slain; and one of them by Ahab.

																																																																																						It was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of the
																																																																																						crimson fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky,
																																																																																						sun and whale both stilly died together; then, such a sweetness and
																																																																																						such plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy
																																																																																						air, that it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent
																																																																																						valleys of the Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned
																																																																																						sailor, had gone to sea, freighted with these vesper hymns.

																																																																																						Soothed again, but only soothed to deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sterned
																																																																																						off pectrally played
																																																																																						round the whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails. A
																																																																																						sound like the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven
																																																																																						ghosts of Gomorrah, ran shuddering through the air.

																																																																																						Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to face, saw the Parsee; and
																																																																																						hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in a
																																																																																						flooded world. “I have dreamed it again,” said he.

																																																																																						“Of the hearses? Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor
																																																																																						coffin can be thine?”

																																																																																						“And who are hearsed that die on the sea?”

																																																																																						“But I said, old man, that ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two
																																																																																						hearses must verily be seen by thee on the sea; the first not made by
																																																																																						mortal hands; and the visible wood of the last one must be grown in
																																																																																						America.”

																																																																																						“Aye, aye! a strange sight that, Parsee:—a hearse and its plumes
																																																																																						floating over the ocean with the waves for the pall-bearers. Ha! Such a
																																																																																						sight we shall not soon see.”

																																																																																						“Believe it or not, thou canst not die till it be seen, old man.”

																																																																																						“And what was that saying about thyself?”

																																																																																						“Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy pilot.”

																																																																																						“And when thou art so gone being
																																																																																						the objects on the unknown, thither side of thee, thou sun!”

																																																																																						Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the other, its
																																																																																						numerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and muttered:
																																																																																						“Foolish toy! babies’ plaything of haughty Admirals, and Commodores,
																																																																																						and Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might; but
																																																																																						what after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where
																																																																																						thou thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that
																																																																																						holds thee: no! not one jot more! Thou canst not tell where one drop of
																																																																																						water or one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy
																																																																																						impotence thou insultest the sun! Science! Curse thee, thou vain toy;
																																																																																						and cursed be all the things that cast man’s eyes aloft to that heaven,
																																																																																						whose live vividness but scorches him, as these old eyes are even now
																																																																																						scorched with thy light, O sun! Level by nature to this earth’s horizon
																																																																																						are the glances of man’s eyes; not shot from the crown of his head, as
																																																																																						if God had meant him to gaze on his firmament. Curse thee, thou
																																																																																						quadrant!” dashing it to the deck, “no longer will I guide my eavery top of the cranes, the windward quarter boat (Ahab’s) did
																																																																																						not escape. A great rolling sea, dashing high up against the reeling
																																																																																						ship’s high teetering side, stove in the boat’s bottom at the stern,
																																																																																						and left it again, all dripping through like a sieve.

																																																																																						“Bad work, bad work! Mr. Starbuck,” said Stubb, regarding the wreck,
																																																																																						“but the sea will have its way. Stubb, for one, can’t fight it. You
																																																																																						see, Mr. Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps,
																																																																																						all round the world it runs, and then comes the spring! But as for me,
																																																																																						all the start I have to meet it, is just across the deck here. But
																																																																																						never mind; it’s all in fun: so the old song says;”—(_sings_.)


																																																																																						  Oh! jolly is the gale, And a joker is the whale, A’ flourishin’ his
																																																																																						    tail,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the
																																																																																						      Ocean, oh!

																																																																																						        The scud all a flyin’, That’s his flip only foamin’; When he stirs in
																																																																																							  the spicin’,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad,
																																																																																							    is the Ocean, oh!

																																																																																							      Thunder splits the ships, But he only smacks his lips, A tastin’ of
																																																																																							        this flip,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky’s have fair play here, though we be the
																																																																																								weaker side. Yet I’ll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and
																																																																																								Andes, that all the world may be secured; but out on privileges! Let
																																																																																								them be, sir.”

																																																																																								“Look aloft!” cried Starbuck. “The corpusants! the corpusants!”

																																																																																								All the yard-arms were tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each
																																																																																								tri-pointed lightning-rod-end with three tapering white flames, each of
																																																																																								the three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air, like
																																																																																								three gigantic wax tapers before an altar.

																																																																																								“Blast the boat! let it go!” cried Stubb at this instant, as a swashing
																																																																																								sea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale violently
																																																																																								jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing. “Blast it!”—but slipping
																																																																																								backward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and
																																																																																								immediately shifting his tone he cried—“The corpusants have mercy on us
																																																																																								all!”

																																																																																								To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance of
																																																																																								the calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses
																																																																																								from the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teeter over to a seething
																																																																																								sea; but in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a cg right arm,
																																																																																								he stood erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.

																																																																																								“Oh! thou clear spirit of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian
																																																																																								once did worship, till in the sacramental act so burned by thee, that
																																																																																								to this hour I bear the scar; I now know thee, thou clear spirit, and I
																																																																																								now know that thy right worship is defiance. To neither love nor
																																																																																								reverence wilt thou be kind; and e’en for hate thou canst but kill; and
																																																																																								all are killed. No fearless fool now fronts thee. I own thy speechless,
																																																																																								placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will
																																																																																								dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me. In the midst of
																																																																																								the personified impersonal, a personality stands here. Though but a
																																																																																								point at best; whencesoe’er I came; wheresoe’er I go; yet while I
																																																																																								earthly live, the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal
																																																																																								rights. But war is pain, and hate is woe. Come in thy lowest form of
																																																																																								love, and I will kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as mere
																																																																																								supernal power; and though thou launchest navies of full-freighted
																																																																																								worlds, there’s that in here that still remains indifferent. Oh, thou
																																																																																								clear spirit, of thy fire thou madest me, and like a true childhis aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dart
																																																																																								that he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke:—

																																																																																								“All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and
																																																																																								heart, soul, and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound. And that ye
																																																																																								may know to what tune this heart beats; look ye here; thus I blow out
																																																																																								the last fear!” And with one blast of his breath he extinguished the
																																																																																								flame.

																																																																																								As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain, men fly the neighborhood of
																																																																																								some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and strength but render it
																																																																																								so much the more unsafe, because so much the more a mark for
																																																																																								thunderbolts; so at those last words of Ahab’s many of the mariners did
																																																																																								run from him in a terror of dismay.


																																																																																								CHAPTER 120. The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch.

																																																																																								_Ahab standing by the helm. Starbuck approaching him._

																																																																																								“We must send down the main-top-sail yard, sir. The band is working
																																																																																								loose and the lee lift is half-stranded. Shall I strike it, sir?”

																																																																																								“Strike nothing; lash it. If I had sky-sail poles, I’d sway them up
																																																																																								now.”

																																																																																								“Sir!—in God’s name!—sir?”

																																																																																								“Well.”

																																																																																								“The anchors are working, sir. Shall I gt’s
																																																																																								a fact. And I am about drenched with this spray. Never mind; catch the
																																																																																								turn there, and pass it. Seems to me we are lashing down these anchors
																																																																																								now as if they were never going to be used again. Tying these two
																																																																																								anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man’s hands behind him. And
																																																																																								what big generous hands they are, to be sure. These are your iron
																																																																																								fists, hey? What a hold they have, too! I wonder, Flask, whether the
																																																																																								world is anchored anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long
																																																																																								cable, though. There, hammer that knot down, and we’ve done. So; next
																																																																																								to touching land, lighting on deck is the most satisfactory. I say,
																																																																																								just wring out my jacket skirts, will ye? Thank ye. They laugh at
																																																																																								long-togs so, Flask; but seems to me, a long tailed coat ought always
																																																																																								to be worn in all storms afloat. The tails tapering down that way,
																																																																																								serve to carry off the water, d’ye see. Same with cocked hats; the
																																																																																								cocks form gable-end eave-troughs, Flask. No more monkey-jackets and
																																																																																								tarpaulins for me; I must mount a swallow-tail, and drive down a
																																																																																								beaver; so. Halloa! whew! there goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord,
																																																																																								Lord, that the winds ts of the cabin made a certain humming silence
																																																																																								to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of the
																																																																																								elements. The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as
																																																																																								they stood upright against the forward bulkhead. Starbuck was an
																																																																																								honest, upright man; but out of Starbuck’s heart, at that instant when
																																																																																								he saw the muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so
																																																																																								blent with its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he
																																																																																								hardly knew it for itself.

																																																																																								“He would have shot me once,” he murmured, “yes, there’s the very
																																																																																								musket that he pointed at me;—that one with the studded stock; let me
																																																																																								touch it—lift it. Strange, that I, who have handled so many deadly
																																																																																								lances, strange, that I should shake so now. Loaded? I must see. Aye,
																																																																																								aye; and powder in the pan;—that’s not good. Best spill it?—wait. I’ll
																																																																																								cure myself of this. I’ll hold the musket boldly while I think.—I come
																																																																																								to report a fair wind to him. But how fair? Fair for death and
																																																																																								doom,—_that’s_ fair for Moby Dick. It’s a fair wind that’s only fair
																																																																																								for that accursed fish.—The very tube he pointed at me!—the very one;
																																																																																								_this_ one—I holding with an angel; but turning from the door, he
																																																																																								placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.

																																																																																								“He’s too sound asleep, Mr. Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell
																																																																																								him. I must see to the deck here. Thou know’st what to say.”


																																																																																								CHAPTER 124. The Needle.

																																																																																								Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea rolled in long slow billows of
																																																																																								mighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod’s gurgling track, pushed her on
																																																																																								like giants’ palms outspread. The strong, unstaggering breeze abounded
																																																																																								so, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails; the whole world
																																																																																								boomed before the wind. Muffled in the full morning light, the
																																																																																								invisible sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place;
																																																																																								where his bayonet rays moved on in stacks. Emblazonings, as of crowned
																																																																																								Babylonian kings and queens, reigned over everything. The sea was as a
																																																																																								crucible of molten gold, that bubblingly leaps with light and heat.

																																																																																								Long maintaining an enchanted silence, Ahab stood apart; and every time
																																																																																								the tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to
																																																																																								eye the bright sun’s rays produced ahead; and when she profoundly
																																																																																								settled by tdegree seemed then to be sharing his
																																																																																								feelings—likewise unmurmuringly acquiesced. As for the men, though some
																																																																																								of them lowly rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear
																																																																																								of Fate. But as ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almost
																																																																																								wholly unimpressed; or if impressed, it was only with a certain
																																																																																								magnetism shot into their congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab’s.

																																																																																								For a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries. But
																																																																																								chancing to slip with his ivory heel, he saw the crushed copper
																																																																																								sight-tubes of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck.

																																																																																								“Thou poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun’s pilot! yesterday I wrecked
																																																																																								thee, and to-day the compasses would fain have wrecked me. So, so. But
																																																																																								Ahab is lord over the level loadstone yet. Mr. Starbuck—a lance without
																																																																																								a pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of the sail-maker’s needles.
																																																																																								Quick!”

																																																																																								Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse dictating the thing he was now about
																																																																																								to do, were certain prudential motives, whose object might have been to
																																																																																								revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill, in a
																																																																																								matter so wondrous as that omagnet
																																																																																								scene, and he remembered how his quadrant was no more, and recalled his
																																																																																								frantic oath about the level log and line. The ship was sailing
																																																																																								plungingly; astern the billows rolled in riots.

																																																																																								“Forward, there! Heave the log!”

																																																																																								Two seamen came. The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman.
																																																																																								“Take the reel, one of ye, I’ll heave.”

																																																																																								They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship’s lee side, where the
																																																																																								deck, with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into
																																																																																								the creamy, sidelong-rushing sea.

																																																																																								The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by the projecting
																																																																																								handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool of line revolved, so
																																																																																								stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab advanced to
																																																																																								him.

																																																																																								Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty
																																																																																								turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the old
																																																																																								Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to
																																																																																								speak.

																																																																																								“Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet have
																																																																																								spoiled it.”

																																																																																								“’Twill hold, old gentleman. Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee?
																																																																																								Thou seem’st to hold. Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not thou it.”

																																																																																								“I hold the spool, sir. But just as my captain says. With these grey
																																																																																								hairs of mine ’tis not worth while disputing, ’specially with a
																																																																																								superior, who’ll ne’er confess.”

																																																																																								“What’s that? There now’s as. Here, boy; Ahab’s cabin shall be Pip’s
																																																																																								home henceforth, while Ahab lives. Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy;
																																																																																								thou art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings. Come, let’s
																																																																																								down.”

																																																																																								“What’s this? here’s velvet shark-skin,” intently gazing at Ahab’s
																																																																																								hand, and feeling it. “Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a thing
																																																																																								as this, perhaps he had ne’er been lost! This seems to me, sir, as a
																																																																																								man-rope; something that weak souls may hold by. Oh, sir, let old Perth
																																																																																								now come and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the
																																																																																								white, for I will not let this go.”

																																																																																								“Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse
																																																																																								horrors than are here. Come, then, to my cabin. Lo! ye believers in
																																																																																								gods all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you! see the omniscient gods
																																																																																								oblivious of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not
																																																																																								what he does, yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude. Come!
																																																																																								I feel prouder leading thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an
																																																																																								Emperor’s!”

																																																																																								“There go two daft ones now,” muttered the old Manxman. “One daft with
																																																																																								strength, the other daft with weakness. But hef white bubbles in the blue of the
																																																																																								sea.

																																																																																								The life-buoy—a long slender cask—was dropped from the stern, where it
																																																																																								always hung obedient to a cunning spring; but no hand rose to seize it,
																																																																																								and the sun having long beat upon this cask it had shrunken, so that it
																																																																																								slowly filled, and that parched wood also filled at its every pore; and
																																																																																								the studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the bottom, as if to
																																																																																								yield him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one.

																																																																																								And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look out
																																																																																								for the White Whale, on the White Whale’s own peculiar ground; that man
																																																																																								was swallowed up in the deep. But few, perhaps, thought of that at the
																																																																																								time. Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at this event, at
																																																																																								least as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a foreshadowing of
																																																																																								evil in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already presaged.
																																																																																								They declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks they
																																																																																								had heard the night before. But again the old Manxman said nay.

																																																																																								The lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see
																																																																																								to it; but as no cask of sufficient liver mind. We workers in woods make bridal-bedsteads and
																																																																																								card-tables, as well as coffins and hearses. We work by the month, or
																																																																																								by the job, or by the profit; not for us to ask the why and wherefore
																																																																																								of our work, unless it be too confounded cobbling, and then we stash it
																																																																																								if we can. Hem! I’ll do the job, now, tenderly. I’ll have me—let’s
																																																																																								see—how many in the ship’s company, all told? But I’ve forgotten. Any
																																																																																								way, I’ll have me thirty separate, Turk’s-headed life-lines, each three
																																																																																								feet long hanging all round to the coffin. Then, if the hull go down,
																																																																																								there’ll be thirty lively fellows all fighting for one coffin, a sight
																																																																																								not seen very often beneath the sun! Come hammer, caulking-iron,
																																																																																								pitch-pot, and marling-spike! Let’s to it.”


																																																																																								CHAPTER 127. The Deck.

																																																																																								_The coffin laid upon two line-tubs, between the vice-bench and the
																																																																																								open hatchway; the Carpenter caulking its seams; the string of twisted
																																																																																								oakum slowly unwinding from a large roll of it placed in the bosom of
																																																																																								his frock.—Ahab comes slowly from the cabin-gangway, and hears Pip
																																																																																								following him._

																																																																																								“Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently. He goes! Not this hand
																																																																																								complies with my humor more genially than that boy.—Middle aisle of a
																																																																																								church! What’s here?”

																																																																																								“Life-buoy, sir. Mr. Starbuck’s orders. Oh, look, sir! Beware the
																																																																																								hatchway!”

																																																																																								“Thank ye, man.oughts? Here
																																																																																								now’s the very dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made the
																																																																																								expressive sign of the help and hope of most endangered life. A
																																																																																								life-buoy of a coffin! Does it go further? Can it be that in some
																																																																																								spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but an immortality-preserver!
																																																																																								I’ll think of that. But no. So far gone am I in the dark side of earth,
																																																																																								that its other side, the theoretic bright one, seems but uncertain
																																																																																								twilight to me. Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursed
																																																																																								sound? I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return again.
																																																																																								Now, then, Pip, we’ll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous
																																																																																								philosophies from thee! Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds
																																																																																								must empty into thee!”


																																																																																								CHAPTER 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel.

																																																																																								Next day, a large ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down
																																																																																								upon the Pequod, all her spars thickly clustering with men. At the time
																																																																																								the Pequod was making good speed through the water; but as the
																																																																																								broad-winged windward stranger shot nigh to her, the boastful sails all
																																																																																								fell together as blank bladders that are burst, and all life fled from
																																																																																								the smitten hull.

																																																																																								“Bad news; she brings bad news,” muttered the old Manxman. But ere her
																																																																																								commander, who, with trumpet to mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he
																																																																																								could hopefully hail, Ahab’s voice was heard.

																																																																																								“Hast seen the White Whale?”

																																																																																								“Aye, yesterday. Have ye seen a whale-boat adrift?”

																																																																																								Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this unexpected question;
																																																																																								and would then have fain boarded the stranger, when the sizon, as it were.

																																																																																								“I will wager something now,” whispered Stubb to Flask, “that some one
																																																																																								in that missing boat wore off that Captain’s best coat; mayhap, his
																																																																																								watch—he’s so cursed anxious to get it back. Who ever heard of two
																																																																																								pious whale-ships cruising after one missing whale-boat in the height
																																																																																								of the whaling season? See, Flask, only see how pale he looks—pale in
																																																																																								the very buttons of his eyes—look—it wasn’t the coat—it must have been
																																																																																								the—”

																																																																																								“My boy, my own boy is among them. For God’s sake—I beg, I
																																																																																								conjure”—here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab, who thus far had
																																																																																								but icily received his petition. “For eight-and-forty hours let me
																																																																																								charter your ship—I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it—if
																																																																																								there be no other way—for eight-and-forty hours only—only that—you
																																																																																								must, oh, you must, and you _shall_ do this thing.”

																																																																																								“His son!” cried Stubb, “oh, it’s his son he’s lost! I take back the
																																																																																								coat and watch—what says Ahab? We must save that boy.”

																																																																																								“He’s drowned with the rest on ’em, last night,” said the old Manx
																																																																																								sailor standing behind them; “I heard; all of ye heard their spirits.”

																																																																																								Now, as it shoot,
																																																																																								however small, on the sea. This way and that her yards were swung
																																																																																								round; starboard and larboard, she continued to tack; now she beat
																																																																																								against a head sea; and again it pushed her before it; while all the
																																																																																								while, her masts and yards were thickly clustered with men, as three
																																																																																								tall cherry trees, when the boys are cherrying among the boughs.

																																																																																								But by her still halting course and winding, woeful way, you plainly
																																																																																								saw that this ship that so wept with spray, still remained without
																																																																																								comfort. She was Rachel, weeping for her children, because they were
																																																																																								not.


																																																																																								CHAPTER 129. The Cabin.

																																																																																								(_Ahab moving to go on deck; Pip catches him by the hand to follow._)

																																																																																								“Lad, lad, I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab now. The hour is
																																																																																								coming when Ahab would not scare thee from him, yet would not have thee
																																																																																								by him. There is that in thee, poor lad, which I feel too curing to my
																																																																																								malady. Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes my most
																																																																																								desired health. Do thou abide below here, where they shall serve thee,
																																																																																								as if thou wert the captain. Aye, lad, thou shalt sit here in my own
																																																																																								screwed chair; another screw to it, thou must be.”

																																																																																								“No, no, no! ye have not a whole body, sir; do ye but use poor me for
																																																																																								your one lost leg; only tread upon me, sir; I ask no more, so I remain
																																																																																								a part of ye.”

																																																																																								“Oh! spite of million villains, this makes me a bigot in the fadeless
																																																																																								fidelity of man!—and a black! and crazy!—but methinks like-cures-like
																																																																																								applies to him too; he grows so sane again.”

																																																																																								“They tell me, sir, that Stubb did once desert poor little Pip, whose
																																																																																								drowned bones now show white, for all the blackness of his living skin.
																																																																																								But I will never desert ye, sir, as Stubb did him. Sir, I must go with
																																																																																								ye.”

																																																																																								“If thou speakest thus to me much moreuntered
																																																																																								Moby Dick;—and now that all his successive meetings with various ships
																																																																																								contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac indifference with which
																																																																																								the white whale tore his hunters, whether sinning or sinned against;
																																																																																								now it was that there lurked a something in the old man’s eyes, which
																																																																																								it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see. As the unsetting
																																																																																								polar star, which through the livelong, arctic, six months’ night
																																																																																								sustains its piercing, steady, central gaze; so Ahab’s purpose now
																																																																																								fixedly gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew. It
																																																																																								domineered above them so, that all their bodings, doubts, misgivings,
																																																																																								fears, were fain to hide beneath their souls, and not sprout forth a
																																																																																								single spear or leaf.

																																																																																								In this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural,
																																																																																								vanished. Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no more
																																																																																								strove to check one. Alike, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, seemed
																																																																																								ground to finest dust, and powdered, for the time, in the clamped
																																																																																								mortar of Ahab’s iron soul. Like machines, they dumbly moved about the
																																																																																								deck, ever conscious that the old man’s despot eye was on them.

																																																																																								But did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours; when
																																																																																								he thought no glance but one was on him; then you would have seen that
																																																																																								even as Ahab’s eyes so awed the crew’s, the inscrutable Parsee’s glance
																																																																																								awed his; or somehow, at least, in some wild way, at times affected it.
																																																																																								Such ae his abandoned substance.

																																																																																								And yet, somehow, did Ahab—in his own proper self, as daily, hourly,
																																																																																								and every instant, commandingly revealed to his subordinates,—Ahab
																																																																																								seemed an independent lord; the Parsee but his slave. Still again both
																																																																																								seemed yoked together, and an unseen tyrant driving them; the lean
																																																																																								shade siding the solid rib. For be this Parsee what he may, all rib and
																																																																																								keel was solid Ahab.

																																																																																								At the first faintest glimmering of the dawn, his iron voice was heard
																																																																																								from aft,—“Man the mast-heads!”—and all through the day, till after
																																																																																								sunset and after twilight, the same voice every hour, at the striking
																																																																																								of the helmsman’s bell, was heard—“What d’ye see?—sharp! sharp!”

																																																																																								But when three or four days had slided by, after meeting the
																																																																																								children-seeking Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen; the monomaniac
																																																																																								old man seemed distrustful of his crew’s fidelity; at least, of nearly
																																																																																								all except the Pagan harpooneers; he seemed to doubt, even, whether
																																																																																								Stubb and Flask might not willingly overlook the sight he sought. But
																																																																																								if these suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained from
																																																																																								verbally expressing them, however his actions might seem to hint them.

																																																																																								“I will have the first sight of the whale myself,”—he said. “Aye! Ahab
																																																																																								must have the doubloon!” andot to mark this wild bird; nor, indeed, would any one else have marked
																																																																																								it much, it being no uncommon circumstance; only now almost the least
																																																																																								heedful eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every
																																																																																								sight.

																																																																																								“Your hat, your hat, sir!” suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman, who
																																																																																								being posted at the mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, though
																																																																																								somewhat lower than his level, and with a deep gulf of air dividing
																																																																																								them.

																																																																																								But already the sable wing was before the old man’s eyes; the long
																																																																																								hooked bill at his head: with a scream, the black hawk darted away with
																																																																																								his prize.

																																																																																								An eagle flew thrice round Tarquin’s head, removing his cap to replace
																																																																																								it, and thereupon Tanaquil, his wife, declared that Tarquin would be
																																																																																								king of Rome. But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen
																																																																																								accounted good. Ahab’s hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on
																																																																																								and on with it; far in advance of the prow: and at last disappeared;
																																																																																								while from the point of that disappearance, a minute black spot was
																																																																																								dimly discerned, falling from that vast height into the sea.


																																																																																								CHAPTER 131. The Pequod Meets The Delight.

																																																																																								The intense Pequod sailed on; the rolling waves and days went by; the
																																																																																								life-buoy-coffin still lightly swung; and another ship, most miserably
																																																																																								misnamed the Delight, was descried. As she drew nigh, all eyes were
																																																																																								fixed upon her broad beams, called shears, which, in some
																																																																																								whaling-ships, cross the quarter-deck at the height of eight or nine
																																																																																								feet; serving to carry the spare, unrigged, or disabled boats.

																																																																																								Upon the stranger’s shears were beheld the shatt in the deeps, far down in the bottomless blue, rushed
																																																																																								mighty leviathans, sword-fish, and sharks; and these were the strong,
																																																																																								troubled, murderous thinkings of the masculine sea.

																																																																																								But though thus contrasting within, the contrast was only in shades and
																																																																																								shadows without; those two seemed one; it was only the sex, as it were,
																																																																																								that distinguished them.

																																																																																								Aloft, like a royal czar and king, the sun seemed giving this gentle
																																																																																								air to this bold and rolling sea; even as bride to groom. And at the
																																																																																								girdling line of the horizon, a soft and tremulous motion—most seen
																																																																																								here at the equator—denoted the fond, throbbing trust, the loving
																																																																																								alarms, with which the poor bride gave her bosom away.

																																																																																								Tied up and twisted; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles; haggardly firm
																																																																																								and unyielding; his eyes glowing like coals, that still glow in the
																																																																																								ashes of ruin; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the
																																																																																								morn; lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl’s
																																																																																								forehead of heaven.

																																																																																								Oh, immortal infancy, and innocency of the azure! Invisible winged
																																																																																								creatures that frolic all round us! Sweet childhood of air and sky! how
																																																																																								oblivious were ye of old Ahab’s close-coiled woe! But so have I seen
																																																																																								little Miriam and Martha, laughing-eyed elves, heedlessly gambol around
																																																																																								their old sire; sporting with the circle of singed locks which grew on
																																																																																								the marge of that burnt-out crater of his brain.

																																																																																								Slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle, Ahab leaned over the side
																																																																																								and watched how his shadow in the water sank and sank to his gaze, the
																																																																																								more and the more that he strove to pierce the profundity. But the
																																																																																								lovely aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to dispel, for a
																																																																																								moment, the cankerous thing in his sou—old fool, has old Ahab been! Why this strife of the chase?
																																																																																								why weary, and palsy the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance?
																																																																																								how the richer or better is Ahab now? Behold. Oh, Starbuck! is it not
																																																																																								hard, that with this weary load I bear, one poor leg should have been
																																																																																								snatched from under me? Here, brush this old hair aside; it blinds me,
																																																																																								that I seem to weep. Locks so grey did never grow but from out some
																																																																																								ashes! But do I look very old, so very, very old, Starbuck? I feel
																																																																																								deadly faint, bowed, and humped, as though I were Adam, staggering
																																																																																								beneath the piled centuries since Paradise. God! God! God!—crack my
																																																																																								heart!—stave my brain!—mockery! mockery! bitter, biting mockery of grey
																																																																																								hairs, have I lived enough joy to wear ye; and seem and feel thus
																																																																																								intolerably old? Close! stand close to me, Starbuck; let me look into a
																																																																																								human eye; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky; better than to
																																																																																								gaze upon God. By the green land; by the bright hearth-stone! this is
																																																																																								the magic glass, man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye. No, no;
																																																																																								stay on board, on board!—lower not when I do; when branded Ahab gives
																																																																																								chase to Moby Dick. That hazard shall not be thine. No, no! not with
																																																																																								the far away home I see in that eye!”

																																																																																								“Oh, my Captain! my Captain! noble soul! grand old heart, after all!
																																																																																								why should any one give chase to that hated fish! Away with me! let us
																																																																																								fly theserpse’s hue with despair, the Mate had stolen away.

																																																																																								Ahab crossed the deck to gaze over on the other side; but started at
																																																																																								two reflected, fixed eyes in the water there. Fedallah was motionlessly
																																																																																								leaning over the same rail.


																																																																																								CHAPTER 133. The Chase—First Day.

																																																																																								That night, in the mid-watch, when the old man—as his wont at
																																																																																								intervals—stepped forth from the scuttle in which he leaned, and went
																																																																																								to his pivot-hole, he suddenly thrust out his face fiercely, snuffing
																																																																																								up the sea air as a sagacious ship’s dog will, in drawing nigh to some
																																																																																								barbarous isle. He declared that a whale must be near. Soon that
																																																																																								peculiar odor, sometimes to a great distance given forth by the living
																																																																																								sperm whale, was palpable to all the watch; nor was any mariner
																																																																																								surprised when, after inspecting the compass, and then the dog-vane,
																																																																																								and then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as
																																																																																								possible, Ahab rapidly ordered the ship’s course to be slightly
																																																																																								altered, and the sail to be shortened.

																																																																																								The acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently vindicated
																																																																																								at daybreak, by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and
																																																																																								lengthwise ahead, smooth as oil, and resembling in the pleated watery
																																																																																								wrinkles bordering it, the polished metallic-like marks of some swift
																																																																																								tide-rip, at the mouth of a deep, rapid stream.

																																																																																								“Man the mast-heads! Call all hands!”

																																																																																								Thundering with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the forecastle
																																																																																								deck, Daggoo roused the sleepers with such judgment claps that they
																																																																																								seemed to exhale from the scuttle, so instantaneously did they appel that! Boats, boats!”

																																																																																								Soon all the boats but Starbuck’s were dropped; all the boat-sails
																																																																																								set—all the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness, shooting to
																																																																																								leeward; and Ahab heading the onset. A pale, death-glimmer lit up
																																																																																								Fedallah’s sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth.

																																																																																								Like noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea;
																																																																																								but only slowly they neared the foe. As they neared him, the ocean grew
																																																																																								still more smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a
																																																																																								noon-meadow, so serenely it spread. At length the breathless hunter
																																																																																								came so nigh his seemingly unsuspecting prey, that his entire dazzling
																																																																																								hump was distinctly visible, sliding along the sea as if an isolated
																																																																																								thing, and continually set in a revolving ring of finest, fleecy,
																																																																																								greenish foam. He saw the vast, involved wrinkles of the slightly
																																																																																								projecting head beyond. Before it, far out on the soft Turkish-rugged
																																																																																								waters, went the glistening white shadow from his broad, milky
																																																																																								forehead, a musical rippling playfully accompanying the shade; and
																																																																																								behind, the blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the moving
																																																																																								valley of his steady wake; and on either hand bright bubbles arose and
																																																																																								danced by his side. But these were broken again by the light toes of
																																																																																								hundreds of gay fowl softly feathering the sea, alternate with their
																																																																																								fitful flight; and like to some flag-staff rising from the  than man’s; Ahab could
																																																																																								discover no sign in the sea. But suddenly as he peered down and down
																																																																																								into its depths, he profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than a
																																																																																								white weasel, with wonderful celerity uprising, and magnifying as it
																																																																																								rose, till it turned, and then there were plainly revealed two long
																																																																																								crooked rows of white, glistening teeth, floating up from the
																																																																																								undiscoverable bottom. It was Moby Dick’s open mouth and scrolled jaw;
																																																																																								his vast, shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the sea.
																																																																																								The glittering mouth yawned beneath the boat like an open-doored marble
																																																																																								tomb; and giving one sidelong sweep with his steering oar, Ahab whirled
																																																																																								the craft aside from this tremendous apparition. Then, calling upon
																																																																																								Fedallah to change places with him, went forward to the bows, and
																																																																																								seizing Perth’s harpoon, commanded his crew to grasp their oars and
																																																																																								stand by to stern.

																																																																																								Now, by reason of this timely spinning round the boat upon its axis,
																																																																																								its bow, by anticipation, was made to face the whale’s head while yet
																																																																																								under water. But as if perceiving this stratagem, Moby Dick, with that
																																																																																								malicious intelligence ascribed to him, sidelingly transplanted
																																																																																								himself, as it were, in an instant, shooting his pleated head
																																																																																								lengthwise beneath the boat.

																																																																																								Through and through; through every plank and each rib, it thrilled forerleap its summit with their scud.

																																																																																								*This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale. It receives its
																																																																																								designation (pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminary
																																																																																								up-and-down poise of the whale-lance, in the exercise called
																																																																																								pitchpoling, previously described. By this motion the whale must best
																																																																																								and most comprehensively view whatever objects may be encircling him.

																																																																																								But soon resuming his horizontal attitude, Moby Dick swam swiftly round
																																																																																								and round the wrecked crew; sideways churning the water in his vengeful
																																																																																								wake, as if lashing himself up to still another and more deadly
																																																																																								assault. The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the
																																																																																								blood of grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus’s elephants in the
																																																																																								book of Maccabees. Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of the
																																																																																								whale’s insolent tail, and too much of a cripple to swim,—though he
																																																																																								could still keep afloat, even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that;
																																																																																								helpless Ahab’s head was seen, like a tossed bubble which the least
																																																																																								chance shock might burst. From the boat’s fragmentary stern, Fedallah
																																																																																								incuriously and mildly eyed him; the clinging crew, at the other
																																																																																								drifting end, could not succor him; more than enough was it for them to
																																																																																								look to themselves. For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale’s
																																																																																								aspect, and so planetarilyked oars. It was thus now.
																																																																																								But the added power of the boat did not equal the added power of the
																																																																																								whale, for he seemed to have treble-banked his every fin; swimming with
																																																																																								a velocity which plainly showed, that if now, under these
																																																																																								circumstances, pushed on, the chase would prove an indefinitely
																																																																																								prolonged, if not a hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for so long
																																																																																								a period, such an unintermitted, intense straining at the oar; a thing
																																																																																								barely tolerable only in some one brief vicissitude. The ship itself,
																																																																																								then, as it sometimes happens, offered the most promising intermediate
																																																																																								means of overtaking the chase. Accordingly, the boats now made for her,
																																																																																								and were soon swayed up to their cranes—the two parts of the wrecked
																																																																																								boat having been previously secured by her—and then hoisting everything
																																																																																								to her side, and stacking her canvas high up, and sideways
																																																																																								outstretching it with stun-sails, like the double-jointed wings of an
																																																																																								albatross; the Pequod bore down in the leeward wake of Moby-Dick. At
																																																																																								the well known, methodic intervals, the whale’s glittering spout was
																																																																																								regularly announced from the manned mast-heads; and when he would be
																																																																																								reported as just gone down, Ahab would take the time, and thenhe shall be killed, this gold is that man’s; and if on
																																																																																								that day I shall again raise him, then, ten times its sum shall be
																																																																																								divided among all of ye! Away now!—the deck is thine, sir!”

																																																																																								And so saying, he placed himself half way within the scuttle, and
																																																																																								slouching his hat, stood there till dawn, except when at intervals
																																																																																								rousing himself to see how the night wore on.


																																																																																								CHAPTER 134. The Chase—Second Day.

																																																																																								At day-break, the three mast-heads were punctually manned afresh.

																																																																																								“D’ye see him?” cried Ahab after allowing a little space for the light
																																																																																								to spread.

																																																																																								“See nothing, sir.”

																																																																																								“Turn up all hands and make sail! he travels faster than I thought
																																																																																								for;—the top-gallant sails!—aye, they should have been kept on her all
																																																																																								night. But no matter—’tis but resting for the rush.”

																																																																																								Here be it said, that this pertinacious pursuit of one particular
																																																																																								whale, continued through day into night, and through night into day, is
																																																																																								a thing by no means unprecedented in the South sea fishery. For such is
																																																																																								the wonderful skill, prescience of experience, and invincible
																																																																																								confidence acquired by some great natural geniuses among the Nantucket
																																																																																								commanders; that from the simple observation of a whale when last
																																																																																								descried, they will, under certain given circumstances, pretty
																																																																																								accurately foretell both the direction in which he will continue to
																																																																																								swim for a time, while ubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew. The frenzies
																																																																																								of the chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up, like old wine
																																																																																								worked anew. Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them might
																																																																																								have felt before; these were not only now kept out of sight through the
																																																																																								growing awe of Ahab, but they were broken up, and on all sides routed,
																																																																																								as timid prairie hares that scatter before the bounding bison. The hand
																																																																																								of Fate had snatched all their souls; and by the stirring perils of the
																																																																																								previous day; the rack of the past night’s suspense; the fixed,
																																																																																								unfearing, blind, reckless way in which their wild craft went plunging
																																																																																								towards its flying mark; by all these things, their hearts were bowled
																																																																																								along. The wind that made great bellies of their sails, and rushed the
																																																																																								vessel on by arms invisible as irresistible; this seemed the symbol of
																																																																																								that unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race.

																																																																																								They were one man, not thirty. For as the one ship that held them all;
																																																																																								though it was put together of all contrasting things—oak, and maple,
																																																																																								and pine wood; iron, and pitch, and hemp—yet all these ran into each
																																																																																								other in the one concrete hull, which shot on its way, both balanced
																																																																																								and directed opped
																																																																																								from his perch.

																																																																																								“Lower away,” he cried, so soon as he had reached his boat—a spare one,
																																																																																								rigged the afternoon previous. “Mr. Starbuck, the ship is thine—keep
																																																																																								away from the boats, but keep near them. Lower, all!”

																																																																																								As if to strike a quick terror into them, by this time being the first
																																																																																								assailant himself, Moby Dick had turned, and was now coming for the
																																																																																								three crews. Ahab’s boat was central; and cheering his men, he told
																																																																																								them he would take the whale head-and-head,—that is, pull straight up
																																																																																								to his forehead,—a not uncommon thing; for when within a certain limit,
																																																																																								such a course excludes the coming onset from the whale’s sidelong
																																																																																								vision. But ere that close limit was gained, and while yet all three
																																																																																								boats were plain as the ship’s three masts to his eye; the White Whale
																																																																																								churning himself into furious speed, almost in an instant as it were,
																																																																																								rushing among the boats with open jaws, and a lashing tail, offered
																																																																																								appalling battle on every side; and heedless of the irons darted at him
																																																																																								from every boat, seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plank
																																																																																								of which those boats were made. But skilfully manœuvred, incessantly
																																																																																								wheeling like trained chargeeling with his flukes from
																																																																																								side to side; and whenever a stray oar, bit of plank, the least chip or
																																																																																								crumb of the boats touched his skin, his tail swiftly drew back, and
																																																																																								came sideways smiting the sea. But soon, as if satisfied that his work
																																																																																								for that time was done, he pushed his pleated forehead through the
																																																																																								ocean, and trailing after him the intertangled lines, continued his
																																																																																								leeward way at a traveller’s methodic pace.

																																																																																								As before, the attentive ship having descried the whole fight, again
																																																																																								came bearing down to the rescue, and dropping a boat, picked up the
																																																																																								floating mariners, tubs, oars, and whatever else could be caught at,
																																																																																								and safely landed them on her decks. Some sprained shoulders, wrists,
																																																																																								and ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances;
																																																																																								inextricable intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all these
																																																																																								were there; but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen
																																																																																								any one. As with Fedallah the day before, so Ahab was now found grimly
																																																																																								clinging to his boat’s broken half, which afforded a comparatively easy
																																																																																								float; nor did it so exhaust him as the previous day’s mishap.

																																																																																								But when he was helped to the deck, all eyes were fastened upon him; as
																																																																																								instead of standing by himself he still half-hung upon the shoulder of
																																																																																								Starbuck, who had thus far been the foremost to assist him. His ivory
																																																																																								leg had been snapped off, leaving but one short sharp splithy very leg once more snatched from under thee; thy evil
																																																																																								shadow gone—all good angels mobbing thee with warnings:—what more
																																																																																								wouldst thou have?—Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish till he
																																																																																								swamps the last man? Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom of the
																																																																																								sea? Shall we be towed by him to the infernal world? Oh, oh,—Impiety
																																																																																								and blasphemy to hunt him more!”

																																																																																								“Starbuck, of late I’ve felt strangely moved to thee; ever since that
																																																																																								hour we both saw—thou know’st what, in one another’s eyes. But in this
																																																																																								matter of the whale, be the front of thy face to me as the palm of this
																																																																																								hand—a lipless, unfeatured blank. Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. This
																																																																																								whole act’s immutably decreed. ’Twas rehearsed by thee and me a billion
																																																																																								years before this ocean rolled. Fool! I am the Fates’ lieutenant; I act
																																																																																								under orders. Look thou, underling! that thou obeyest mine.—Stand round
																																																																																								me, men. Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shivered
																																																																																								lance; propped up on a lonely foot. ’Tis Ahab—his body’s part; but
																																																																																								Ahab’s soul’s a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs. I feel
																																																																																								strained, half stranded, as ropes that tow dismaste still this hair is growing
																																																																																								now; this moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no, it’s like
																																																																																								that sort of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the earthy
																																																																																								clefts of Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava. How the wild winds blow
																																																																																								it; they whip it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the
																																																																																								tossed ship they cling to. A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this
																																																																																								through prison corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, and
																																																																																								ventilated them, and now comes blowing hither as innocent as fleeces.
																																																																																								Out upon it!—it’s tainted. Were I the wind, I’d blow no more on such a
																																																																																								wicked, miserable world. I’d crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink
																																																																																								there. And yet, ’tis a noble and heroic thing, the wind! who ever
																																																																																								conquered it? In every fight it has the last and bitterest blow. Run
																																																																																								tilting at it, and you but run through it. Ha! a coward wind that
																																																																																								strikes stark naked men, but will not stand to receive a single blow.
																																																																																								Even Ahab is a braver thing—a nobler thing than _that_. Would now the
																																																																																								wind but had a body; but all the things that most exasperate and
																																																																																								outrage mortal man, all these things are bodiless, but only bodiless as
																																																																																								objects, not as agents. There’s a most special, a most cunning, oh, a
																																																																																								most malicious difference! And yet, I say again, and swear it now, that
																																																																																								there’s something aluarter. But good bye, good bye, old
																																																																																								mast-head! What’s this?—green? aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks.
																																																																																								No such green weather stains on Ahab’s head! There’s the difference now
																																																																																								between man’s old age and matter’s. But aye, old mast, we both grow old
																																																																																								together; sound in our hulls, though, are we not, my ship? Aye, minus a
																																																																																								leg, that’s all. By heaven this dead wood has the better of my live
																																																																																								flesh every way. I can’t compare with it; and I’ve known some ships
																																																																																								made of dead trees outlast the lives of men made of the most vital
																																																																																								stuff of vital fathers. What’s that he said? he should still go before
																																																																																								me, my pilot; and yet to be seen again? But where? Will I have eyes at
																																																																																								the bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs? and
																																																																																								all night I’ve been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to. Aye,
																																																																																								aye, like many more thou told’st direful truth as touching thyself, O
																																																																																								Parsee; but, Ahab, there thy shot fell short. Good-bye, mast-head—keep
																																																																																								a good eye upon the whale, the while I’m gone. We’ll talk to-morrow,
																																																																																								nay, to-night, when the white whale lies down there, tied by head and
																																																																																								tail.”

																																																																																								He gave the word; and still gazing round him, was steadily lowered
																																																																																								through the cloven blue air to the deck.

																																																																																								In due time the boats were lowered; but as standing in hMary, girl! thou fadest in pale glories behind me; boy! I seem to see
																																																																																								but thy eyes grown wondrous blue. Strangest problems of life seem
																																																																																								clearing; but clouds sweep between—Is my journey’s end coming? My legs
																																																																																								feel faint; like his who has footed it all day. Feel thy heart,—beats
																																																																																								it yet? Stir thyself, Starbuck!—stave it off—move, move! speak
																																																																																								aloud!—Mast-head there! See ye my boy’s hand on the hill?—Crazed;—aloft
																																																																																								there!—keep thy keenest eye upon the boats:—mark well the whale!—Ho!
																																																																																								again!—drive off that hawk! see! he pecks—he tears the vane”—pointing
																																																																																								to the red flag flying at the main-truck—“Ha! he soars away with
																																																																																								it!—Where’s the old man now? see’st thou that sight, oh Ahab!—shudder,
																																																																																								shudder!”

																																																																																								The boats had not gone very far, when by a signal from the mast-heads—a
																																																																																								downward pointed arm, Ahab knew that the whale had sounded; but
																																																																																								intending to be near him at the next rising, he held on his way a
																																																																																								little sideways from the vessel; the becharmed crew maintaining the
																																																																																								profoundest silence, as the head-beat waves hammered and hammered
																																																																																								against the opposing bow.

																																																																																								“Drive, drive in your nails, oh ye wo him, though for the
																																																																																								present her headway had been stopped. He seemed swimming with his
																																																																																								utmost velocity, and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight
																																																																																								path in the sea.

																																																																																								“Oh! Ahab,” cried Starbuck, “not too late is it, even now, the third
																																																																																								day, to desist. See! Moby Dick seeks thee not. It is thou, thou, that
																																																																																								madly seekest him!”

																																																																																								Setting sail to the rising wind, the lonely boat was swiftly impelled
																																																																																								to leeward, by both oars and canvas. And at last when Ahab was sliding
																																																																																								by the vessel, so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck’s face as he
																																																																																								leaned over the rail, he hailed him to turn the vessel about, and
																																																																																								follow him, not too swiftly, at a judicious interval. Glancing upwards,
																																																																																								he saw Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the three
																																																																																								mast-heads; while the oarsmen were rocking in the two staved boats
																																																																																								which had but just been hoisted to the side, and were busily at work in
																																																																																								repairing them. One after the other, through the port-holes, as he
																																																																																								sped, he also caught flying glimpses of Stubb and Flask, busying
																																																																																								themselves on deck among bundles of new irons and lances. As he saw all
																																																																																								this; as he heard the hammers in the broken boats; far other hammers
																																																																																								seemed drivi the crew to turn round on their
																																																																																								seats, and tow the boat up to the mark; the moment the treacherous line
																																																																																								felt that double strain and tug, it snapped in the empty air!

																																																																																								“What breaks in me? Some sinew cracks!—’tis whole again; oars! oars!
																																																																																								Burst in upon him!”

																																																																																								Hearing the tremendous rush of the sea-crashing boat, the whale wheeled
																																																																																								round to present his blank forehead at bay; but in that evolution,
																																																																																								catching sight of the nearing black hull of the ship; seemingly seeing
																																																																																								in it the source of all his persecutions; bethinking it—it may be—a
																																																																																								larger and nobler foe; of a sudden, he bore down upon its advancing
																																																																																								prow, smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam.

																																																																																								Ahab staggered; his hand smote his forehead. “I grow blind; hands!
																																																																																								stretch out before me that I may yet grope my way. Is’t night?”

																																																																																								“The whale! The ship!” cried the cringing oarsmen.

																																																																																								“Oars! oars! Slope downwards to thy depths, O sea, that ere it be for
																																																																																								ever too late, Ahab may slide this last, last time upon his mark! I
																																																																																								see: the ship! the ship! Dash on, my men! Will ye not save my ship?”

																																																																																								But as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through the
																																																																																								sledge-hammering seas, the before whal ship! The hearse!—the second hearse!” cried Ahab from the boat;
																																																																																								“its wood could only be American!”

																																																																																								Diving beneath the settling ship, the whale ran quivering along its
																																																																																								keel; but turning under water, swiftly shot to the surface again, far
																																																																																								off the other bow, but within a few yards of Ahab’s boat, where, for a
																																																																																								time, he lay quiescent.

																																																																																								“I turn my body from the sun. What ho, Tashtego! let me hear thy
																																																																																								hammer. Oh! ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel;
																																																																																								and only god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and
																																																																																								Pole-pointed prow,—death-glorious ship! must ye then perish, and
																																																																																								without me? Am I cut off from the last fond pride of meanest
																																																																																								shipwrecked captains? Oh, lonely death on lonely life! Oh, now I feel
																																																																																								my topmost greatness lies in my topmost grief. Ho, ho! from all your
																																																																																								furthest bounds, pour ye now in, ye bold billows of my whole foregone
																																																																																								life, and top this one piled comber of my death! Towards thee I roll,
																																																																																								thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the last I grapple with
																																																																																								thee; from hell’s heart I stab at thee; for hate’s sake I spit my last
																																																																																								breath at thee. Sink all coffins and all hearses to one common pool!
																																																																																								and since neither can be mine, let me then tow to pieces, while still
																																																																																								chasing thee, though tied to thee, thou damned whale! _Thus_, I give up
																																																																																								the spear!”

																																																																																								The harpoon was darted; the stricken w the place of Ahab’s bowsman, when that bowsman
																																																																																								assumed the vacant post; the same, who, when on the last day the three
																																																																																								men were tossed from out of the rocking boat, was dropped astern. So,
																																																																																								floating on the margin of the ensuing scene, and in full sight of it,
																																																																																								when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me, I was then, but
																																																																																								slowly, drawn towards the closing vortex. When I reached it, it had
																																																																																								subsided to a creamy pool. Round and round, then, and ever contracting
																																																																																								towards the button-like black bubble at the axis of that slowly
																																																																																								wheeling circle, like another Ixion I did revolve. Till, gaining that
																																																																																								vital centre, the black bubble upward burst; and now, liberated by
																																																																																								reason of its cunning spring, and, owing to its great buoyancy, rising
																																																																																								with great force, the coffin life-buoy shot lengthwise from the sea,
																																																																																								fell over, and floated by my side. Buoyed up by that coffin, for almost
																																																																																								one whole day and night, I floated on a soft and dirgelike main. The
																																																																																								unharming sharks, they glided by as if with padlocks on their mouths;
																																																																																								the savage sea-hawks sailed with sheathed beaks. On the second day, a
																																																																																								sail drew near, nearer, and picked me up at last. It was the
																																																																																								devious-cruising Rachel, that in her retracing search after her missing
																																																																																								children, only found another orphan.




																																																																																								*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR,ect Gutenberg™ electronic works
																																																																																								even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
																																																																																								paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
																																																																																								Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
																																																																																								agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
																																																																																								electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

																																																																																								1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
																																																																																								Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
																																																																																								of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
																																																																																								works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
																																																																																								States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
																																																																																								United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
																																																																																								claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
																																																																																								displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
																																																																																								all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
																																																																																								that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
																																																																																								free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
																																																																																								works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
																																																																																								Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
																																																																																								comply with the terms of ttaining a part of this
																																																																																								work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

																																																																																								1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
																																																																																								electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
																																																																																								prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
																																																																																								active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
																																																																																								Gutenberg™ License.

																																																																																								1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
																																																																																								compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
																																																																																								any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
																																																																																								to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
																																																																																								other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
																																																																																								version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
																																																																																								(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
																																																																																								to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
																																																																																								of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
																																																																																								Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
																																																																																								full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

																																																																																								1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
																																																																																								performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
																																																																																								unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

																																																																																								1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
																																																																																								acc that damage or
																																																																																								cannot be read by your equipment.

																																																																																								1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
																																																																																								of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
																																																																																								Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
																																																																																								Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
																																																																																								Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
																																																																																								liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
																																																																																								fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
																																																																																								LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
																																																																																								PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
																																																																																								TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
																																																																																								LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
																																																																																								INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
																																																																																								DAMAGE.

																																																																																								1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
																																																																																								defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
																																																																																								receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
																																																																																								written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
																																																																																								received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
																																																																																								with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
																																																																																								with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
																																																																																								lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
																																																																																								or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
																																																																																								opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
																																																																																								the second copy is alnformation about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

																																																																																								The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
																																																																																								501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
																																																																																								state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
																																																																																								Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
																																																																																								number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
																																																																																								Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
																																																																																								U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

																																																																																								The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
																																																																																								Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
																																																																																								to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
																																																																																								and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

																																																																																								Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
																																																																																								Literary Archive Foundation

																																																																																								Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
																																																																																								public support and donations to carry out its mission of
						The Project Gutenberg eBook of Moby Dick; Or, The Whale
						    
						    This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
						    most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
						    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
						    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
						    at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
						    you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
						    before using this eBook.

						    Title: Moby Dick; Or, The Whale

						    Author: Herman Melville

						    Release date: July 1, 2001 [eBook #2701]
						                    Most recently updated: January 19, 2025

								    Language: English

								    Credits: Daniel Lazarus, Jonesey, and David Widger


								    *** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR, THE WHALE ***




								    MOBY-DICK;

								    or, THE WHALE.

								    By Herman Melville



								    CONTENTS

								    ETYMOLOGY.

								    EXTRACTS (Supplied by a Sub-Sub-Librarian).

								    CHAPTER 1. Loomings.

								    CHAPTER 2. The Carpet-Bag.

								    CHAPTER 3. The Spouter-Inn.

								    CHAPTER 4. The Counterpane.

								    CHAPTER 5. Breakfast.

								    CHAPTER 6. The Street.

								    CHAPTER 7. The Chapel.

								    CHAPTER 8. The Pulpit.

								    CHAPTER 9. The Sermon.

								    CHAPTER 10. A Bosom Friend.

								    CHAPTER 11. Nightgown.

								    CHAPTER 12. Biographical.

								    CHAPTER 13. Wheelbarrow.

								    CHAPTER 14. Nantucket.

								    CHAPTER 15. Chowder.

								    CHAPTER 16. The Ship.

								    CHAPTER 17. The Ramadan.

								    CHAPTER 18. His Mark.

								    CHAPTER 19. The Prophet.

								    CHAPTER 20. All Astir.

								    CHAPTER 21. Going Aboard.

								    CHAPTER 22. Merry Christmas.

								    CHAPTER 23. The Lee Shore.

								    CHAPTER 24. The Advocate.

								    CHAPTER 25. Postscript.

								    CHAPTER 26. Knights and Squires.

								    CHAPTER 27. Knights and Squires.

								    CHAPTER 28. Ahab.

								    CHAPTER 29. Enter Ahab; to Him, Stubb.

								    CHAPTER 30. The Pipe.

								    CHAPTER 31. Queen Mab.

								    CHAPTER 32. Cetology.

								    CHAPTER 33. The Specksnyder.

								    CHAPTER 34. The Cabin-Table.

								    CHAPTER 35. The Mast-Head.

								    CHAPTER 36. The Quarter-Deck.

								    CHAPTER 37. Sunset.

								    CHAPTER 38. Dusk.

								    CHAPTER 39. First Night-Watch.

								    CHAPTER 40. Midnight, Forecastle.

								    CHAPTER 41. Moby Dick.

								    CHAPTER 42. The Whiteness of the Whale.

								    CHAPTER 43. Hark!

								    CHAPTER 44. The Chart.

								    CHAPTER 45. The Affidavit.

								    CHAPTER 46. Surmises.

								    CHAPTER 47. The Mat-Maker.

								    CHAPTER 48. The First Lowering.

								    CHAPTER 49. The Hyena.

								    CHAPTER 50. Ahab’s Boat and Crew. Fedallah.

								    CHAPTER 51. The Spirit-Spout.

								    CHAPTER 52. The Albatross.

								    CHAPTER 53. The Gam.

								    CHAPTER 54. The Town-Ho’s Story.

								    CHAPTER 55. Of the Monstrous Pictures of Whales.

								    CHAPTER 56. Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the True
								    Pictures of Whaling Scenes.

								    CHAPTER 57. Of Whales in Paint; in Teeth; in Wood; in Sheet-Iron; in
								    Stone; in Mountains; in Stars.

								    CHAPTER 58. Brit.

								    CHAPTER 59. Squid.

								    CHAPTER 60. The Line.

								    CHAPTER 61. Stubb Kills a Whale.

								    CHAPTER 62. The Dart.

								    CHAPTER 63. The Crotch.

								    CHAPTER 64. Stubb’s Supper.

								    CHAPTER 65. The Whale as a Dish.

								    CHAPTER 66. The Shark Massacre.

								    CHAPTER 67. Cutting In.

								    CHAPTER 68. The Blanket.

								    CHAPTER 69. The Funeral.

								    CHAPTER 70. The Sphynx.

								    CHAPTER 71. The Jeroboam’s Story.

								    CHAPTER 72. The Monkey-Rope.

								    CHAPTER 73. Stubb and Flask kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talk
								    over Him.

								    CHAPTER 74. The Sperm Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.

								    CHAPTER 75. The Right Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.

								    CHAPTER 76. The Battering-Ram.

								    CHAPTER 77. The Great Heidelburgh Tun.

								    CHAPTER 78. Cistern and Buckets.

								    CHAPTER 79. The Prairie.

								    CHAPTER 80. The Nut.

								    CHAPTER 81. The Pequod Meets The Virgin.

								    CHAPTER 82. The Honor and Glory of Whaling.

								    CHAPTER 83. Jonah Historically Regarded.

								    CHAPTER 84. Pitchpoling.

								    CHAPTER 85. The Fountain.

								    CHAPTER 86. The Tail.

								    CHAPTER 87. The Grand Armada.

								    CHAPTER 88. Schools and Schoolmasters.

								    CHAPTER 89. Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish.

								    CHAPTER 90. Heads or Tails.

								    CHAPTER 91. The Pequod Meets The Rose-Bud.

								    CHAPTER 92. Ambergris.

								    CHAPTER 93. The Castaway.

								    CHAPTER 94. A Squeeze of the Hand.

								    CHAPTER 95. The Cassock.

								    CHAPTER 96. The Try-Works.

								    CHAPTER 97. The Lamp.

								    CHAPTER 98. Stowing Down and Clearing Up.

								    CHAPTER 99. The Doubloon.

								    CHAPTER 100. Leg and Arm.

								    CHAPTER 101. The Decanter.

								    CHAPTER 102. A Bower in the Arsacides.

								    CHAPTER 103. Measurement of The Whale’s Skeleton.

								    CHAPTER 104. The Fossil Whale.

								    CHAPTER 105. Does the Whale’s Magnitude Diminish?—Will He Perish?

								    CHAPTER 106. Ahab’s Leg.

								    CHAPTER 107. The Carpenter.

								    CHAPTER 108. Ahab and the Carpenter.

								    CHAPTER 109. Ahab and Starbuck in the Cabin.

								    CHAPTER 110. Queequeg in His Coffin.

								    CHAPTER 111. The Pacific.

								    CHAPTER 112. The Blacksmith.

								    CHAPTER 113. The Forge.

								    CHAPTER 114. The Gilder.

								    CHAPTER 115. The Pequod Meets The Bachelor.

								    CHAPTER 116. The Dying Whale.

								    CHAPTER 117. The Whale Watch.

								    CHAPTER 118. The Quadrant.

								    CHAPTER 119. The Candles.

								    CHAPTER 120. The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch.

								    CHAPTER 121. Midnight.—The Forecastle Bulwarks.

								    CHAPTER 122. Midnight Aloft.—Thunder and Lightning.

								    CHAPTER 123. The Musket.

								    CHAPTER 124. The Needle.

								    CHAPTER 125. The Log and Line.

								    CHAPTER 126. The Life-Buoy.

								    CHAPTER 127. The Deck.

								    CHAPTER 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel.

								    CHAPTER 129. The Cabin.

								    CHAPTER 130. The Hat.

								    CHAPTER 131. The Pequod Meets The Delight.

								    CHAPTER 132. The Symphony.

								    CHAPTER 133. The Chase—First Day.

								    CHAPTER 134. The Chase—Second Day.

								    CHAPTER 135. The Chase.—Third Day.

								    Epilogue




								    Original Transcriber’s Notes:





								    This text is a combination of etexts, one from the now-defunct ERIS
								    project at Virginia Tech and one from Project Gutenberg’s archives. The
								    proofreaders of this version are indebted to The University of Adelaide
								    Library for preserving the Virginia Tech version. The resulting etext
								    was compared with a public domain hard copy version of the text.





								      ETYMOLOGY.


								        (Supplied by a Late Consumptive Usher to a Grammar School.)

									  The pale Usher—threadbare in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him
									    now. He was ever dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer
									      handkerchief, mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all the
									        known nations of the world. He loved to dust his old grammars; it
										  somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.

										    “While you take in hand to school others, and to teach them by what
										      name a whale-fish is to be called in our tongue, leaving out, through
										        ignorance, the letter H, which almost alone maketh up the
											  signification of the word, you deliver that which is not true.”
											    —_Hackluyt._

											      “WHALE. * * * Sw. and Dan. _hval_. This animal is named from
											        roundness or rolling; for in Dan. _hvalt_ is arched or vaulted.”
												  —_Webster’s Dictionary._

												    “WHALE. * * * It is more immediately from the Dut. and Ger. _Wallen_;
												      A.S. _Walw-ian_, to roll, to wallow.” —_Richardson’s Dictionary._


												        חו,                 _Hebrew_.
													  ϰητος,              _Greek_.
													    CETUS,              _Latin_.
													      WHŒL,               _Anglo-Saxon_.
													        HVALT,              _Danish_.
														  WAL,                _Dutch_.
														    HWAL,               _Swedish_.
														      WHALE,              _Icelandic_.
														        WHALE,              _English_.
															  BALLENA,            _Spanish_.
															    PEKEE-NUEE-NUEE,    _Fegee_.
															      PEHEE-NUEE-NUEE,    _Erromangoan_.



															        EXTRACTS. (Supplied by a Sub-Sub-Librarian).



																  It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grub-worm of
																    a poor devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long
																      Vaticans and street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random
																        allusions to whales he could anyways find in any book whatsoever,
																	  sacred or profane. Therefore you must not, in every case at least,
																	    take the higgledy-piggledy whale statements, however authentic, in
																	      these extracts, for veritable gospel cetology. Far from it. As
																	        touching the ancient authors generally, as well as the poets here
																		  appearing, these extracts are solely valuable or entertaining, as
																		    affording a glancing bird’s eye view of what has been promiscuously
																		      said, thought, fancied, and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and
																		        generations, including our own.

																			  So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am.
																			    Thou belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this
																			      world will ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too
																			        rosy-strong; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel
																				  poor-devilish, too; and grow convivial upon tears; and say to them
																				    bluntly, with full eyes and empty glasses, and in not altogether
																				      unpleasant sadness—Give it up, Sub-Subs! For by how much the more
																				        pains ye take to please the world, by so much the more shall ye for
																					  ever go thankless! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the
																					    Tuileries for ye! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the
																					      royal-mast with your hearts; for your friends who have gone before
																					        are clearing out the seven-storied heavens, and making refugees of
																						  long-pampered Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against your coming.
																						    Here ye strike but splintered hearts together—there, ye shall strike
																						      unsplinterable glasses!

																						      EXTRACTS.

																						        “And God created great whales.” —_Genesis_.

																							  “Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him; One would think the deep
																							    to be hoary.” —_Job_.

																							      “Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.”
																							        —_Jonah_.

																								  “There go the ships; there is that Leviathan whom thou hast made to
																								    play therein.” —_Psalms_.

																								      “In that day, the Lord with his sore, and great, and strong sword,
																								        shall punish Leviathan the piercing serpent, even Leviathan that
																									  crooked serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea.”
																									    —_Isaiah_.

																									      “And what thing soever besides cometh within the chaos of this
																									        monster’s mouth, be it beast, boat, or stone, down it goes all
																										  incontinently that foul great swallow of his, and perisheth in the
																										    bottomless gulf of his paunch.” —_Holland’s Plutarch’s Morals_.

																										      “The Indian Sea breedeth the most and the biggest fishes that are:
																										        among which the Whales and Whirlpooles called Balaene, take up as
																											  much in length as four acres or arpens of land.” —_Holland’s Pliny_.

																											    “Scarcely had we proceeded two days on the sea, when about sunrise a
																											      great many Whales and other monsters of the sea, appeared. Among the
																											        former, one was of a most monstrous size.... This came towards us,
																												  open-mouthed, raising the waves on all sides, and beating the sea
																												    before him into a foam.” —_Tooke’s Lucian_. “_The True History_.”




																												      “He visited this country also with a view of catching horse-whales,
																												        which had bones of very great value for their teeth, of which he
																													  brought some to the king.... The best whales were catched in his own
																													    country, of which some were forty-eight, some fifty yards long. He
																													      said that he was one of six who had killed sixty in two days.”
																													        —_Other or Other’s verbal narrative taken down from his mouth by King
																														  Alfred, A.D._ 890.

																														    “And whereas all the other things, whether beast or vessel, that
																														      enter into the dreadful gulf of this monster’s (whale’s) mouth, are
																														        immediately lost and swallowed up, the sea-gudgeon retires into it in
																															  great security, and there sleeps.” —MONTAIGNE. —_Apology for Raimond
																															    Sebond_.

																															      “Let us fly, let us fly! Old Nick take me if it is not Leviathan
																															        described by the noble prophet Moses in the life of patient Job.”
																																  —_Rabelais_.

																																    “This whale’s liver was two cartloads.” —_Stowe’s Annals_.

																																      “The great Leviathan that maketh the seas to seethe like boiling
																																        pan.” —_Lord Bacon’s Version of the Psalms_.

																																	  “Touching that monstrous bulk of the whale or ork we have received
																																	    nothing certain. They grow exceeding fat, insomuch that an incredible
																																	      quantity of oil will be extracted out of one whale.” —_Ibid_.
																																	        “_History of Life and Death_.”




																																		  “The sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruise.”
																																		    —_King Henry_.

																																		      “Very like a whale.” —_Hamlet_.


																																		        “Which to secure, no skill of leach’s art Mote him availle, but to
																																			  returne againe To his wound’s worker, that with lowly dart, Dinting
																																			    his breast, had bred his restless paine, Like as the wounded whale to
																																			      shore flies thro’ the maine.” —_The Fairie Queen_.



																																			        “Immense as whales, the motion of whose vast bodies can in a peaceful
																																				  calm trouble the ocean till it boil.” —_Sir William Davenant. Preface
																																				    to Gondibert_.

																																				      “What spermacetti is, men might justly doubt, since the learned
																																				        Hosmannus in his work of thirty years, saith plainly, _Nescio quid
																																					  sit_.” —_Sir T. Browne. Of Sperma Ceti and the Sperma Ceti Whale.
																																					    Vide his V. E._


																																					      “Like Spencer’s Talus with his modern flail He threatens ruin with
																																					        his ponderous tail. ... Their fixed jav’lins in his side he wears,
																																						  And on his back a grove of pikes appears.” —_Waller’s Battle of the
																																						    Summer Islands_.



																																						      “By art is created that great Leviathan, called a Commonwealth or
																																						        State—(in Latin, Civitas) which is but an artificial man.” —_Opening
																																							  sentence of Hobbes’s Leviathan_.

																																							    “Silly Mansoul swallowed it without chewing, as if it had been a
																																							      sprat in the mouth of a whale.” —_Pilgrim’s Progress_.


																																							        “That sea beast Leviathan, which God of all his works Created hugest
																																								  that swim the ocean stream.” —_Paradise Lost_.

																																								    —“There Leviathan, Hugest of living creatures, in the deep Stretched
																																								      like a promontory sleeps or swims, And seems a moving land; and at
																																								        his gills Draws in, and at his breath spouts out a sea.” —_Ibid_.



																																									  “The mighty whales which swim in a sea of water, and have a sea of
																																									    oil swimming in them.” —_Fuller’s Profane and Holy State_.


																																									      “So close behind some promontory lie The huge Leviathan to attend
																																									        their prey, And give no chance, but swallow in the fry, Which through
																																										  their gaping jaws mistake the way.” —_Dryden’s Annus Mirabilis_.



																																										    “While the whale is floating at the stern of the ship, they cut off
																																										      his head, and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come;
																																										        but it will be aground in twelve or thirteen feet water.” —_Thomas
																																											  Edge’s Ten Voyages to Spitzbergen, in Purchas_.

																																											    “In their way they saw many whales sporting in the ocean, and in
																																											      wantonness fuzzing up the water through their pipes and vents, which
																																											        nature has placed on their shoulders.” —_Sir T. Herbert’s Voyages
																																												  into Asia and Africa. Harris Coll_.

																																												    “Here they saw such huge troops of whales, that they were forced to
																																												      proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their
																																												        ship upon them.” —_Schouten’s Sixth Circumnavigation_.

																																													  “We set sail from the Elbe, wind N.E. in the ship called The
																																													    Jonas-in-the-Whale.... Some say the whale can’t open his mouth, but
																																													      that is a fable.... They frequently climb up the masts to see whether
																																													        they can see a whale, for the first discoverer has a ducat for his
																																														  pains.... I was told of a whale taken near Shetland, that had above a
																																														    barrel of herrings in his belly.... One of our harpooneers told me
																																														      that he caught once a whale in Spitzbergen that was white all over.”
																																														        —_A Voyage to Greenland, A.D._ 1671. _Harris Coll_.

																																															  “Several whales have come in upon this coast (Fife) Anno 1652, one
																																															    eighty feet in length of the whale-bone kind came in, which (as I was
																																															      informed), besides a vast quantity of oil, did afford 500 weight of
																																															        baleen. The jaws of it stand for a gate in the garden of Pitferren.”
																																																  —_Sibbald’s Fife and Kinross_.

																																																    “Myself have agreed to try whether I can master and kill this
																																																      Sperma-ceti whale, for I could never hear of any of that sort that
																																																        was killed by any man, such is his fierceness and swiftness.”
																																																	  —_Richard Strafford’s Letter from the Bermudas. Phil. Trans. A.D._
																																																	    1668.

																																																	      “Whales in the sea God’s voice obey.” —_N. E. Primer_.

																																																	        “We saw also abundance of large whales, there being more in those
																																																		  southern seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one; than we have to the
																																																		    northward of us.” —_Captain Cowley’s Voyage round the Globe, A.D._
																																																		      1729.

																																																		        “... and the breath of the whale is frequently attended with such an
																																																			  insupportable smell, as to bring on a disorder of the brain.”
																																																			    —_Ulloa’s South America_.


																																																			      “To fifty chosen sylphs of special note, We trust the important
																																																			        charge, the petticoat. Oft have we known that seven-fold fence to
																																																				  fail, Tho’ stuffed with hoops and armed with ribs of whale.” —_Rape
																																																				    of the Lock_.



																																																				      “If we compare land animals in respect to magnitude, with those that
																																																				        take up their abode in the deep, we shall find they will appear
																																																					  contemptible in the comparison. The whale is doubtless the largest
																																																					    animal in creation.” —_Goldsmith, Nat. Hist_.

																																																					      “If you should write a fable for little fishes, you would make them
																																																					        speak like great whales.” —_Goldsmith to Johnson_.

																																																						  “In the afternoon we saw what was supposed to be a rock, but it was
																																																						    found to be a dead whale, which some Asiatics had killed, and were
																																																						      then towing ashore. They seemed to endeavor to conceal themselves
																																																						        behind the whale, in order to avoid being seen by us.” —_Cook’s
																																																							  Voyages_.

																																																							    “The larger whales, they seldom venture to attack. They stand in so
																																																							      great dread of some of them, that when out at sea they are afraid to
																																																							        mention even their names, and carry dung, lime-stone, juniper-wood,
																																																								  and some other articles of the same nature in their boats, in order
																																																								    to terrify and prevent their too near approach.” —_Uno Von Troil’s
																																																								      Letters on Banks’s and Solander’s Voyage to Iceland in_ 1772.

																																																								        “The Spermacetti Whale found by the Nantuckois, is an active, fierce
																																																									  animal, and requires vast address and boldness in the fishermen.”
																																																									    —_Thomas Jefferson’s Whale Memorial to the French minister in_ 1778.

																																																									      “And pray, sir, what in the world is equal to it?” —_Edmund Burke’s
																																																									        reference in Parliament to the Nantucket Whale-Fishery_.

																																																										  “Spain—a great whale stranded on the shores of Europe.” —_Edmund
																																																										    Burke_. (_somewhere_.)

																																																										      “A tenth branch of the king’s ordinary revenue, said to be grounded
																																																										        on the consideration of his guarding and protecting the seas from
																																																											  pirates and robbers, is the right to _royal_ fish, which are whale
																																																											    and sturgeon. And these, when either thrown ashore or caught near the
																																																											      coast, are the property of the king.” —_Blackstone_.


																																																											        “Soon to the sport of death the crews repair: Rodmond unerring o’er
																																																												  his head suspends The barbed steel, and every turn attends.”
																																																												    —_Falconer’s Shipwreck_.

																																																												      “Bright shone the roofs, the domes, the spires, And rockets blew self
																																																												        driven, To hang their momentary fire Around the vault of heaven.

																																																													  “So fire with water to compare, The ocean serves on high, Up-spouted
																																																													    by a whale in air, To express unwieldy joy.” —_Cowper, on the Queen’s
																																																													      Visit to London_.



																																																													        “Ten or fifteen gallons of blood are thrown out of the heart at a
																																																														  stroke, with immense velocity.” —_John Hunter’s account of the
																																																														    dissection of a whale_. (_A small sized one_.)

																																																														      “The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the
																																																														        water-works at London Bridge, and the water roaring in its passage
																																																															  through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood
																																																															    gushing from the whale’s heart.” —_Paley’s Theology_.

																																																															      “The whale is a mammiferous animal without hind feet.” —_Baron
																																																															        Cuvier_.

																																																																  “In 40 degrees south, we saw Spermacetti Whales, but did not take any
																																																																    till the first of May, the sea being then covered with them.”
																																																																      —_Colnett’s Voyage for the Purpose of Extending the Spermaceti Whale
																																																																        Fishery_.


																																																																	  “In the free element beneath me swam, Floundered and dived, in play,
																																																																	    in chace, in battle, Fishes of every colour, form, and kind; Which
																																																																	      language cannot paint, and mariner Had never seen; from dread
																																																																	        Leviathan To insect millions peopling every wave: Gather’d in shoals
																																																																		  immense, like floating islands, Led by mysterious instincts through
																																																																		    that waste And trackless region, though on every side Assaulted by
																																																																		      voracious enemies, Whales, sharks, and monsters, arm’d in front or
																																																																		        jaw, With swords, saws, spiral horns, or hooked fangs.”
																																																																			  —_Montgomery’s World before the Flood_.

																																																																			    “Io!  Paean!  Io! sing. To the finny people’s king. Not a mightier
																																																																			      whale than this In the vast Atlantic is; Not a fatter fish than he,
																																																																			        Flounders round the Polar Sea.” —_Charles Lamb’s Triumph of the
																																																																				  Whale_.



																																																																				    “In the year 1690 some persons were on a high hill observing the
																																																																				      whales spouting and sporting with each other, when one observed:
																																																																				        there—pointing to the sea—is a green pasture where our children’s
																																																																					  grand-children will go for bread.” —_Obed Macy’s History of
																																																																					    Nantucket_.

																																																																					      “I built a cottage for Susan and myself and made a gateway in the
																																																																					        form of a Gothic Arch, by setting up a whale’s jaw bones.”
																																																																						  —_Hawthorne’s Twice Told Tales_.

																																																																						    “She came to bespeak a monument for her first love, who had been
																																																																						      killed by a whale in the Pacific ocean, no less than forty years
																																																																						        ago.” —_Ibid_.

																																																																							  “No, Sir, ’tis a Right Whale,” answered Tom; “I saw his sprout; he
																																																																							    threw up a pair of as pretty rainbows as a Christian would wish to
																																																																							      look at. He’s a raal oil-butt, that fellow!” —_Cooper’s Pilot_.

																																																																							        “The papers were brought in, and we saw in the Berlin Gazette that
																																																																								  whales had been introduced on the stage there.” —_Eckermann’s
																																																																								    Conversations with Goethe_.

																																																																								      “My God! Mr. Chace, what is the matter?” I answered, “we have been
																																																																								        stove by a whale.” —“_Narrative of the Shipwreck of the Whale Ship
																																																																									  Essex of Nantucket, which was attacked and finally destroyed by a
																																																																									    large Sperm Whale in the Pacific Ocean_.” _By Owen Chace of
																																																																									      Nantucket, first mate of said vessel. New York_, 1821.


																																																																									        “A mariner sat in the shrouds one night, The wind was piping free;
																																																																										  Now bright, now dimmed, was the moonlight pale, And the phospher
																																																																										    gleamed in the wake of the whale, As it floundered in the sea.”
																																																																										      —_Elizabeth Oakes Smith_.



																																																																										        “The quantity of line withdrawn from the boats engaged in the capture
																																																																											  of this one whale, amounted altogether to 10,440 yards or nearly six
																																																																											    English miles....

																																																																											      “Sometimes the whale shakes its tremendous tail in the air, which,
																																																																											        cracking like a whip, resounds to the distance of three or four
																																																																												  miles.” —_Scoresby_.

																																																																												    “Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks, the
																																																																												      infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over; he rears his enormous
																																																																												        head, and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him; he
																																																																													  rushes at the boats with his head; they are propelled before him with
																																																																													    vast swiftness, and sometimes utterly destroyed.... It is a matter of
																																																																													      great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so
																																																																													        interesting, and, in a commercial point of view, so important an
																																																																														  animal (as the Sperm Whale) should have been so entirely neglected,
																																																																														    or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous, and
																																																																														      many of them competent observers, that of late years, must have
																																																																														        possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of
																																																																															  witnessing their habitudes.” —_Thomas Beale’s History of the Sperm
																																																																															    Whale_, 1839.

																																																																															      “The Cachalot” (Sperm Whale) “is not only better armed than the True
																																																																															        Whale” (Greenland or Right Whale) “in possessing a formidable weapon
																																																																																  at either extremity of its body, but also more frequently displays a
																																																																																    disposition to employ these weapons offensively and in manner at once
																																																																																      so artful, bold, and mischievous, as to lead to its being regarded as
																																																																																        the most dangerous to attack of ault for some time with a lance; but the furious monster at length
																																																																																	  rushed on the boat; himself and comrades only being preserved by
																																																																																	    leaping into the water when they saw the onset was inevitable.”
																																																																																	      —_Missionary Journal of Tyerman and Bennett_.

																																																																																	        “Nantucket itself,” said Mr. Webster, “is a very striking and
																																																																																		  peculiar portion of the National interest. There is a population of
																																																																																		    eight or nine thousand persons living here in the sea, adding largely
																																																																																		      every year to the National wealth by the boldest and most persevering
																																																																																		        industry.” —_Report of Daniel Webster’s Speech in the U. S. Senate,
																																																																																			  on the application for the Erection of a Breakwater at Nantucket_.
																																																																																			    1828.

																																																																																			      “The whale fell directly over him, and probably killed him in a
																																																																																			        moment.” —“_The Whale and his Captors, or The Whaleman’s Adventures
																																																																																				  and the Whale’s Biography, gathered on the Homeward Cruise of the
																																																																																				    Commodore Preble_.” _By Rev. Henry T. Cheever_.

																																																																																				      “If you make the least damn bit of noise,” replied Samuel, “I will
																																																																																				        send you to hell.” —_Life of Samuel Comstock_ (_the mutineer_), _by
																																																																																					  his brother, William Comstock. Another Version of the whale-ship
																																																																																					    Globe narrative_.

																																																																																					      “The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in
																																																																																					        order, if possible, to discover a passage through it to India, though
																																																																																						  they failed of their main object, laid-open the haunts of the whale.”
																																																																																						    —_McCulloch’s Commercial Dictionary_.

																																																																																						      “These things are reciprocal; the ball rebounds, only to bound
																																																																																						        forward again; for now in laying open the haunts of the whale, the
																																																																																							  whalemen seem to have indirectly hit upon new clews to that same
																																																																																							    mystic North-West Passage.” —_From_ “_Some. Some years ago—never mind how long precisely—having
																																																																																							    little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me
																																																																																							    on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part
																																																																																							    of the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and
																																																																																							    regulating the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about
																																																																																							    the mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever
																																																																																							    I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and
																																																																																							    bringing up the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever
																																																																																							    my hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral
																																																																																							    principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and
																																																																																							    methodically knocking people’s hats off—then, I account it high time to
																																																																																							    get to sea as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball.
																																																																																							    With a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I
																																																																																							    quietly take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If they
																																																																																							    but knew it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other,
																																																																																							    cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me.

																																																																																							    There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by
																																																																																							    wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs—commerce surrounds it with her
																																																																																							    surf. Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extreme
																																																																																							    downtown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and
																																																																																							    cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of
																																																																																							    land. Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.

																																																																																							    Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears
																																																																																							    Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What
																																																																																							    do you see?—Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand
																																																																																							    thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some
																																																																																							    leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some
																																																																																							    looking over the bulwarks of ships froefore him. Go visit the Prairies in June,
																																																																																							    when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among
																																																																																							    Tiger-lilies—what is the one charm wanting?—Water—there is not a drop
																																																																																							    of water there! Were Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel
																																																																																							    your thousand miles to see it? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon
																																																																																							    suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy
																																																																																							    him a coat, which he sadly needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian
																																																																																							    trip to Rockaway Beach? Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a
																																																																																							    robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other crazy to go to sea?
																																																																																							    Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you yourself feel such a
																																																																																							    mystical vibration, when first told that you and your ship were now out
																																																																																							    of sight of land? Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy? Why did
																																																																																							    the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove? Surely
																																																																																							    all this is not without meaning. And still deeper the meaning of that
																																																																																							    story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild
																																																																																							    image he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned. But that
																																																																																							    same image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans. It is the image
																																																																																							    of the ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all.

																																																																																							    Now, when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin
																																																																																							    to grow hazy about the eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my
																																																																																							    lungs, I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to sea as a
																																																																																							    passenger. For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a
																																																																																							    purse is but a rag unless you have something in it. Besin much the same way—either in a physical or
																																																																																							    metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is
																																																																																							    passed round, and all hands should rub each other’s shoulder-blades,
																																																																																							    and be content.

																																																																																							    Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of
																																																																																							    paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single
																																																																																							    penny that I ever heard of. On the contrary, passengers themselves must
																																																																																							    pay. And there is all the difference in the world between paying and
																																																																																							    being paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable
																																																																																							    infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us. But _being
																																																																																							    paid_,—what will compare with it? The urbane activity with which a man
																																																																																							    receives money is really marvellous, considering that we so earnestly
																																																																																							    believe money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on no
																																																																																							    account can a monied man enter heaven. Ah! how cheerfully we consign
																																																																																							    ourselves to perdition!

																																																																																							    Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome
																																																																																							    exercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For as in this world,
																																																																																							    head winds are far more prevalent than winds from astern (that is, if
																																																																																							    you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the
																																																																																							    Commoder my
																																																																																							    arm, and started for Cape Horn and the Pacific. Quitting the good city
																																																																																							    of old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New Bedford. It was a Saturday night
																																																																																							    in December. Much was I disappointed upon learning that the little
																																																																																							    packet for Nantucket had already sailed, and that no way of reaching
																																																																																							    that place would offer, till the following Monday.

																																																																																							    As most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling stop at
																																																																																							    this same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as well
																																																																																							    be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing. For my mind was
																																																																																							    made up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a
																																																																																							    fine, boisterous something about everything connected with that famous
																																																																																							    old island, which amazingly pleased me. Besides though New Bedford has
																																																																																							    of late been gradually monopolising the business of whaling, and though
																																																																																							    in this matter poor old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket
																																																																																							    was her great original—the Tyre of this Carthage;—the place where the
																																																																																							    first dead American whale was stranded. Where else but from Nantucket
																																																																																							    did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes
																																																																																							    to give chase to the Leviathan? And where but from Nantucket, too, did
																																																																																							    that first adventurous little sloop put forth, partly laden with
																																																																																							    imported cobblestones—so goes the story—to throw at the whales, in
																																																																																							    order to discover when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the
																																																																																							    bowsprit?

																																																																																							    Now having a night, a day, and still another night following before me
																																																																																							    in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port, it became a
																																																																																							    matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile. It was a
																																																																																							    very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold
																																																																																							    and cheerless. I knew no one in the place. With anxious grapnels I had
																																																																																							    sounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver,—So,
																																																																																							    wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of
																																																																																							    a dreary street shouldering my bag, s to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of
																																																																																							    Doom was beating a book in a pulpit. It was a negro church; and the
																																																																																							    preacher’s text was about the blackness of darkness, and the weeping
																																																																																							    and wailing and teeth-gnashing there. Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing
																																																																																							    out, Wretched entertainment at the sign of ‘The Trap!’

																																																																																							    Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the
																																																																																							    docks, and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up, saw a
																																																																																							    swinging sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly
																																																																																							    representing a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words
																																																																																							    underneath—“The Spouter Inn:—Peter Coffin.”

																																																																																							    Coffin?—Spouter?—Rather ominous in that particular connexion, thought
																																																																																							    I. But it is a common name in Nantucket, they say, and I suppose this
																																																																																							    Peter here is an emigrant from there. As the light looked so dim, and
																																																																																							    the place, for the time, looked quiet enough, and the dilapidated
																																																																																							    little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here
																																																																																							    from the ruins of some burnt district, and as the swinging sign had a
																																																																																							    poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here was the very
																																																																																							    spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.

																																																																																							    It was a queer sort of place—a gable-ended old house, one side palsied
																																																																																							    as it were, and leaning over sadly. It stood on a sharp bleak corner,
																																																																																							    where that tempestuous wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than
																																																																																							    ever it did about poor Paul’s tossed craft. Euroclydon, nevertheless,
																																																																																							    is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in-doors, with his feet on the
																																																																																							    hob quietly toasting fo that in the
																																																																																							    unequal crosslights by which you viewed it, it was only by diligent
																																																																																							    study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful inquiry of
																																																																																							    the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its
																																																																																							    purpose. Such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at first
																																																																																							    you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New
																																																																																							    England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched. But by dint
																																																																																							    of much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and
																																																																																							    especially by throwing open the little window towards the back of the
																																																																																							    entry, you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea, however
																																																																																							    wild, might not be altogether unwarranted.

																																																																																							    But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long, limber,
																																																																																							    portentous, black mass of something hovering in the centre of the
																																																																																							    picture over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a
																																																																																							    nameless yeast. A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive
																																																																																							    a nervous man distracted. Yet was there a sort of indefinite,
																																																																																							    half-attained, unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to
																																																																																							    it, till you involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what
																																																																																							    that marvellous painting meant. Ever and anon a bright, but, alas,
																																																																																							    deceptive idea would dart you through.—It’s the Black Sea in a midnight
																																																																																							    gale.—It’s the unnatural combat of the four primal elements.—It’s a
																																																																																							    blasted heath.—It’s a Hyperborean winter scene.—It it. Within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old
																																																																																							    decanters, bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction,
																																																																																							    like another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him),
																																																																																							    bustles a little withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells
																																																																																							    the sailors deliriums and death.

																																																																																							    Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison. Though true
																																																																																							    cylinders without—within, the villanous green goggling glasses
																																																																																							    deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom. Parallel meridians
																																																																																							    rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads’ goblets. Fill to
																																																																																							    _this_ mark, and your charge is but a penny; to _this_ a penny more;
																																																																																							    and so on to the full glass—the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp
																																																																																							    down for a shilling.

																																																																																							    Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen gathered about
																																																																																							    a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of _skrimshander_. I
																																																																																							    sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be accommodated with
																																																																																							    a room, received for answer that his house was full—not a bed
																																																																																							    unoccupied. “But avast,” he added, tapping his forehead, “you haint no
																																																																																							    objections to sharing a harpooneer’s blanket, have ye? I s’pose you are
																																																																																							    goin’ a-whalin’, so you’d better get used to that sort of thing.”

																																																																																							    I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should
																																																																																							    ever do so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and that
																																																																																							    if he (the landlord) really had no other place for me, and the
																																																																																							    harpooneer was not decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander
																																																																																							    further about a strange town on so bitter a night, I would put up with
																																																																																							    the half of any decent man’s blanket.

																																																																																							    “I thought so. All right; take a seat. Supper?—you want supper?
																																																																																							    Supper’ll be ready directly.”

																																																																																							    I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like a beed from
																																																																																							    their boat, and this was the first house they entered. No wonder, then,
																																																																																							    that they made a straight wake for the whale’s mouth—the bar—when the
																																																																																							    wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon poured them out
																																																																																							    brimmers all round. One complained of a bad cold in his head, upon
																																																																																							    which Jonah mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which he
																																																																																							    swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never
																																																																																							    mind of how long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador,
																																																																																							    or on the weather side of an ice-island.

																																																																																							    The liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it generally does even
																																																																																							    with the arrantest topers newly landed from sea, and they began
																																																																																							    capering about most obstreperously.

																																																																																							    I observed, however, that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though
																																																																																							    he seemed desirous not to spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his
																																																																																							    own sober face, yet upon the whole he refrained from making as much
																																																																																							    noise as the rest. This man interested me at once; and since the
																																																																																							    sea-gods had ordained that he should soon become my shipmate (though
																																																																																							    but a sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is concerned), I
																																																																																							    will here venture upon a little description of him. He stood full six
																																																																																							    feet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam. I
																																																																																							    have seldom seen such brawn in a man. His face was deeply brown and
																																																																																							    burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in the
																																																																																							    deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem
																																																																																							    to give him much joy. His voice at once announced that he was a
																																																																																							    Southerner, and from his finemp against an indestructible knot. The landlord was
																																																																																							    near spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven’s sake to quit—the
																																																																																							    bed was soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing
																																																																																							    in the world could make eider down of a pine plank. So gathering up the
																																																																																							    shavings with another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in
																																																																																							    the middle of the room, he went about his business, and left me in a
																																																																																							    brown study.

																																																																																							    I now took the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too
																																																																																							    short; but that could be mended with a chair. But it was a foot too
																																																																																							    narrow, and the other bench in the room was about four inches higher
																																																																																							    than the planed one—so there was no yoking them. I then placed the
																																																																																							    first bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall,
																																																																																							    leaving a little interval between, for my back to settle down in. But I
																																																																																							    soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from
																																																																																							    under the sill of the window, that this plan would never do at all,
																																																																																							    especially as another current from the rickety door met the one from
																																																																																							    the window, and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in
																																																																																							    the immediate vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the
																																																																																							    night.

																																																																																							    The devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn’t I steal
																																																																																							    a march on him—bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be
																																																																																							    wakened by the most violent knockings? It seemed no bad idea; but upon
																																																																																							    second thoughts I dismissed it. Fornd about this harpooneer, whom I have
																																																																																							    not yet seen, you persist in telling me the most mystifying and
																																																																																							    exasperating stories tending to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling
																																																																																							    towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow—a sort of connexion,
																																																																																							    landlord, which is an intimate and confidential one in the highest
																																																																																							    degree. I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this
																																																																																							    harpooneer is, and whether I shall be in all respects safe to spend the
																																																																																							    night with him. And in the first place, you will be so good as to unsay
																																																																																							    that story about selling his head, which if true I take to be good
																																																																																							    evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I’ve no idea of
																																																																																							    sleeping with a madman; and you, sir, _you_ I mean, landlord, _you_,
																																																																																							    sir, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render
																																																																																							    yourself liable to a criminal prosecution.”

																																																																																							    “Wall,” said the landlord, fetching a long breath, “that’s a purty long
																																																																																							    sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and then. But be easy, be
																																																																																							    easy, this here harpooneer I have been tellin’ you of has just arrived
																																																																																							    from the south seas, where he bought up a lot of ’balmed New Zealand
																																																																																							    heads (great curios, you know), and he’s sold all on ’em but one, and
																																																																																							    that one he’s trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow’s Sunday, and it
																																																																																							    would not do to be sellin’ human heads about the streets when folks is
																																																																																							    goin’ to churches. He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as
																																																																																							    he was goin’ out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for
																																																																																							    all the airth like a string of inions.âd held it close to the
																																																																																							    light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to
																																																																																							    arrive at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it. I can compare it
																																																																																							    to nothing but a large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little
																																																																																							    tinkling tags something like the stained porcupine quills round an
																																																																																							    Indian moccasin. There was a hole or slit in the middle of this mat, as
																																																																																							    you see the same in South American ponchos. But could it be possible
																																																																																							    that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade the
																																																																																							    streets of any Christian town in that sort of guise? I put it on, to
																																																																																							    try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being uncommonly shaggy
																																																																																							    and thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this mysterious
																																																																																							    harpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day. I went up in it to a bit
																																																																																							    of glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my
																																																																																							    life. I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink
																																																																																							    in the neck.

																																																																																							    I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about this
																																																																																							    head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat. After thinking some time on
																																																																																							    the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in
																																																																																							    the middle of the room thinking. I then took off my coat, and thought a
																																																																																							    little more in my shirt sleeves. But beginning to feel very cold now,
																																																																																							    half undressed as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about
																																																																																							    the harpooneer’s not coming home at all that night, it being so very
																																																																																							    late, I made d his bag, he commenced
																																																																																							    fumbling in it, and presently pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a
																																																																																							    seal-skin wallet with the hair on. Placing these on the old chest in
																																																																																							    the middle of the room, he then took the New Zealand head—a ghastly
																																																																																							    thing enough—and crammed it down into the bag. He now took off his
																																																																																							    hat—a new beaver hat—when I came nigh singing out with fresh surprise.
																																																																																							    There was no hair on his head—none to speak of at least—nothing but a
																																																																																							    small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead. His bald purplish head now
																																																																																							    looked for all the world like a mildewed skull. Had not the stranger
																																																																																							    stood between me and the door, I would have bolted out of it quicker
																																																																																							    than ever I bolted a dinner.

																																																																																							    Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the window, but
																																																																																							    it was the second floor back. I am no coward, but what to make of this
																																																																																							    head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.
																																																																																							    Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
																																																																																							    confounded about the stranger, I confess I was now as much afraid of
																																																																																							    him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at
																																																																																							    the dead of night. In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game
																																																																																							    enough just then to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer
																																																																																							    concerning what seemed inexplicable in him.

																																																																																							    Meanwhile, he continued thbout in
																																																																																							    the most unnatural manner. At last extinguishing the fire, he took the
																																																																																							    idol up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket
																																																																																							    as carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.

																																																																																							    All these queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeing
																																																																																							    him now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business
																																																																																							    operations, and jumping into bed with me, I thought it was high time,
																																																																																							    now or never, before the light was put out, to break the spell in which
																																																																																							    I had so long been bound.

																																																																																							    But the interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.
																																																																																							    Taking up his tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for
																																																																																							    an instant, and then holding it to the light, with his mouth at the
																																																																																							    handle, he puffed out great clouds of tobacco smoke. The next moment
																																																																																							    the light was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, tomahawk between
																																																																																							    his teeth, sprang into bed with me. I sang out, I could not help it
																																																																																							    now; and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment he began feeling me.

																																																																																							    Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away from him
																																																																																							    against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
																																																																																							    be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again. But his
																																																																																							    guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but is, I
																																																																																							    say, looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork
																																																																																							    quilt. Indeed, partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I
																																																																																							    could hardly tell it from the quilt, they so blended their hues
																																																																																							    together; and it was only by the sense of weight and pressure that I
																																																																																							    could tell that Queequeg was hugging me.

																																																																																							    My sensations were strange. Let me try to explain them. When I was a
																																																																																							    child, I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me;
																																																																																							    whether it was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle. The
																																																																																							    circumstance was this. I had been cutting up some caper or other—I
																																																																																							    think it was trying to crawl up the chimney, as I had seen a little
																																																																																							    sweep do a few days previous; and my stepmother who, somehow or other,
																																																																																							    was all the time whipping me, or sending me to bed supperless,—my
																																																																																							    mother dragged me by the legs out of the chimney and packed me off to
																																																																																							    bed, though it was only two o’clock in the afternoon of the 21st June,
																																																																																							    the longest day in the year in our hemisphere. I felt dreadfully. But
																																																																																							    there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my little room in the
																																																																																							    third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as to kill time,
																																																																																							    and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.

																																																																																							    I lay there dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse
																																																																																							    before I could hope for a resurrectidness, Queequeg, wake!” At length, by dint of much wriggling, and
																																																																																							    loud and incessant expostulations upon the unbecomingness of his
																																																																																							    hugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style, I succeeded in
																																																																																							    extracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm, shook himself
																																																																																							    all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat up in
																																																																																							    bed, stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if
																																																																																							    he did not altogether remember how I came to be there, though a dim
																																																																																							    consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over
																																																																																							    him. Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings
																																																																																							    now, and bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature. When, at
																																																																																							    last, his mind seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow,
																																																																																							    and he became, as it were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon
																																																																																							    the floor, and by certain signs and sounds gave me to understand that,
																																																																																							    if it pleased me, he would dress first and then leave me to dress
																																																																																							    afterwards, leaving the whole apartment to myself. Thinks I, Queequeg,
																																																																																							    under the circumstances, this is a very civilized overture; but, the
																																																																																							    truth is, these savages have an innate sense of delicacy, say what you
																																																																																							    will; it is marvellous how essentially polite they are. I pay this
																																																																																							    particular compliment to Queequeg, because he treated me with so much
																																																																																							    c
																																																																																							    vengeance. Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation when I came
																																																																																							    to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how
																																																																																							    exceedingly sharp the long straight edges are always kept.

																																																																																							    The rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of
																																																																																							    the room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his
																																																																																							    harpoon like a marshal’s baton.


																																																																																							    CHAPTER 5. Breakfast.

																																																																																							    I quickly followed suit, and descending into the bar-room accosted the
																																																																																							    grinning landlord very pleasantly. I cherished no malice towards him,
																																																																																							    though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the matter of my
																																																																																							    bedfellow.

																																																																																							    However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and rather too scarce a
																																																																																							    good thing; the more’s the pity. So, if any one man, in his own proper
																																																																																							    person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not be
																																																																																							    backward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in
																																																																																							    that way. And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about
																																																																																							    him, be sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.

																																																																																							    The bar-room was now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the
																																																																																							    night previous, and whom I had not as yet had a good look at. They were
																																																																																							    nearly all whalemen; chief mates, and second mates, and third mates,
																																																																																							    and sea carpenters, and sea coopers, and sea blacksmiths, and
																																																																																							    harpooneers, and ship keepers; a brown and brawny company, with bosky
																																																																																							    beards; an unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing monkey jackets for morning
																																																																																							    gowns.

																																																																																							    You could pretty plainly tell how long each one had been ashore. This
																																																																																							    young fellow’s healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted pear in hue, and
																																																																																							    would seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been three days
																																																																																							    landed from his Indian voyage. That man next him looks a few shades
																																																																																							    lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him. In the
																																																																																							    complexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly
																																																																																							    bleached withal; y done by him, and
																																																																																							    every one knows that in most people’s estimation, to do anything coolly
																																																																																							    is to do it genteelly.

																																																																																							    We will not speak of all Queequeg’s peculiarities here; how he eschewed
																																																																																							    coffee and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention to
																																																																																							    beefsteaks, done rare. Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew
																																																																																							    like the rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was
																																																																																							    sitting there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat
																																																																																							    on, when I sallied out for a stroll.


																																																																																							    CHAPTER 6. The Street.

																																																																																							    If I had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so outlandish
																																																																																							    an individual as Queequeg circulating among the polite society of a
																																																																																							    civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon taking my first
																																																																																							    daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford.

																																																																																							    In thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will
																																																																																							    frequently offer to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign
																																																																																							    parts. Even in Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners
																																																																																							    will sometimes jostle the affrighted ladies. Regent Street is not
																																																																																							    unknown to Lascars and Malays; and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live
																																																																																							    Yankees have often scared the natives. But New Bedford beats all Water
																																																																																							    Street and Wapping. In these last-mentioned haunts you see only
																																																																																							    sailors; but in New Bedford, actual cannibals stand chatting at street
																																																																																							    corners; savages outright; many of whom yet carry on their bones unholy
																																																																																							    flesh. It makes a stranger stare.

																																																																																							    Butat?

																																																																																							    In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to their
																																																																																							    daughters, and portion off their nieces with a few porpoises a-piece.
																																																																																							    You must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say,
																																																																																							    they have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly
																																																																																							    burn their lengths in spermaceti candles.

																																																																																							    In summer time, the town is sweet to see; full of fine maples—long
																																																																																							    avenues of green and gold. And in August, high in air, the beautiful
																																																																																							    and bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer the passer-by
																																																																																							    their tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms. So omnipotent is
																																																																																							    art; which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced bright
																																																																																							    terraces of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at
																																																																																							    creation’s final day.

																																																																																							    And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own red roses. But
																																																																																							    roses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of their cheeks
																																																																																							    is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens. Elsewhere match that
																																																																																							    bloom of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the young
																																																																																							    girls breathe such musk, their sailor sweethearts smell them miles off
																																																																																							    shore, as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of
																																																																																							    the Puritanic sands.


																																																																																							    CHAPTER 7. The Chapel.

																																																																																							    In this same New Bedford there stands a Whaleman’s Chapel, and few are
																																																																																							    the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the Indian Ocean or Pacific, who
																																																																																							    fail to make a Sunday visit to the spot. I am sure that I did not.

																																																																																							    Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied out upon this
																																																																																							    special errand. The sky had changed from clear, sunny cold, to driving
																																																																																							    sleet and mist. Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called
																																																																																							    bearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm. Entering, I found
																																																																																							    a small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors’ wives and
																																																																																							    widows. A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the shrieks
																																																																																							    of the storm. Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart
																																																																																							    frke these. What bitter blanks in
																																																																																							    those black-bordered marbles which cover no ashes! What despair in
																																																																																							    those immovable inscriptions! What deadly voids and unbidden
																																																																																							    infidelities in the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and refuse
																																																																																							    resurrections to the beings who have placelessly perished without a
																																																																																							    grave. As well might those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as
																																																																																							    here.

																																																																																							    In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included;
																																																																																							    why it is that a universal proverb says of them, that they tell no
																																																																																							    tales, though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands; how it is
																																																																																							    that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we prefix
																																																																																							    so significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, if
																																																																																							    he but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the
																																																																																							    Life Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in what
																																																																																							    eternal, unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet lies
																																																																																							    antique Adam who died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that we
																																																																																							    still refuse to be comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain are
																																																																																							    dwelling in unspeakable bliss; why all the living so strive to hush all
																																																																																							    the dead; wherefore but the rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify
																																																																																							    a whole city. All these things are not without their meanings.

																																																																																							    But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the tombs, and even from these
																																																																																							    dead doubts she gathers her most vital hope.

																																																																																							    It needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of a
																																																																																							    Nantucket voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murky
																																																																																							    light of that darkened, doleful day read the egular stairs to such a height would, by its long angle with the
																																																																																							    floor, seriously contract the already small area of the chapel, the
																																																																																							    architect, it seemed, had acted upon the hint of Father Mapple, and
																																																																																							    finished the pulpit without a stairs, substituting a perpendicular side
																																																																																							    ladder, like those used in mounting a ship from a boat at sea. The wife
																																																																																							    of a whaling captain had provided the chapel with a handsome pair of
																																																																																							    red worsted man-ropes for this ladder, which, being itself nicely
																																																																																							    headed, and stained with a mahogany colour, the whole contrivance,
																																																																																							    considering what manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in bad
																																																																																							    taste. Halting for an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with both
																																																																																							    hands grasping the ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple
																																																																																							    cast a look upwards, and then with a truly sailor-like but still
																																																																																							    reverential dexterity, hand over hand, mounted the steps as if
																																																																																							    ascending the main-top of his vessel.

																																																																																							    The perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the case
																																																																																							    with swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of
																																																																																							    wood, so that at every step there was a joint. At my first glimpse of
																																																																																							    the pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship,
																																																																																							    these joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary. For I was not
																																																																																							    prepared to see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turn
																																																																																							    round, and stooping over the pulpit, deliberatsea-boots among the benches, and a
																																																																																							    still slighter shuffling of women’s shoes, and all was quiet again, and
																																																																																							    every eye on the preacher.

																																																																																							    He paused a little; then kneeling in the pulpit’s bows, folded his
																																																																																							    large brown hands across his chest, uplifted his closed eyes, and
																																																																																							    offered a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying
																																																																																							    at the bottom of the sea.

																																																																																							    This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the continual tolling of a
																																																																																							    bell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog—in such tones he
																																																																																							    commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner towards
																																																																																							    the concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy—


																																																																																							      “The ribs and terrors in the whale, Arched over me a dismal gloom,
																																																																																							        While all God’s sun-lit waves rolled by, And lift me deepening down
																																																																																								  to doom.

																																																																																								    “I saw the opening maw of hell, With endless pains and sorrows there;
																																																																																								      Which none but they that feel can tell— Oh, I was plunging to
																																																																																								        despair.

																																																																																									  “In black distress, I called my God, When I could scarce believe him
																																																																																									    mine, He bowed his ear to my complaints— No more the whale did me
																																																																																									      confine.

																																																																																									        “With speed he flew to my relief, As on a radiant dolphin borne;
																																																																																										  Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone The face of me man! Oh! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with
																																																																																										  slouched hat and guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the
																																																																																										  shipping like a vile burglar hastening to cross the seas. So
																																																																																										  disordered, self-condemning is his look, that had there been policemen
																																																																																										  in those days, Jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had
																																																																																										  been arrested ere he touched a deck. How plainly he’s a fugitive! no
																																																																																										  baggage, not a hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag,—no friends accompany him
																																																																																										  to the wharf with their adieux. At last, after much dodging search, he
																																																																																										  finds the Tarshish ship receiving the last items of her cargo; and as
																																																																																										  he steps on board to see its Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for
																																																																																										  the moment desist from hoisting in the goods, to mark the stranger’s
																																																																																										  evil eye. Jonah sees this; but in vain he tries to look all ease and
																																																																																										  confidence; in vain essays his wretched smile. Strong intuitions of the
																																																																																										  man assure the mariners he can be no innocent. In their gamesome but
																																																																																										  still serious way, one whispers to the other—“Jack, he’s robbed a
																																																																																										  widow;” or, “Joe, do you mark him; he’s a bigamist;” or, “Harry lad, I
																																																																																										  guess he’s the adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike,
																																																																																										  one of the missing murderers from Sodom.” Another runs to read the bill
																																																																																										  that’s stuck against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is
																																																																																										  moored, offering five hbout the doors of
																																																																																										  convicts’ cells being never allowed to be locked within. All dressed
																																																																																										  and dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into his berth, and finds the
																																																																																										  little state-room ceiling almost resting on his forehead. The air is
																																																																																										  close, and Jonah gasps. Then, in that contracted hole, sunk, too,
																																																																																										  beneath the ship’s water-line, Jonah feels the heralding presentiment
																																																																																										  of that stifling hour, when the whale shall hold him in the smallest of
																																																																																										  his bowels’ wards.

																																																																																										  “Screwed at its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightly
																																																																																										  oscillates in Jonah’s room; and the ship, heeling over towards the
																																																																																										  wharf with the weight of the last bales received, the lamp, flame and
																																																																																										  all, though in slight motion, still maintains a permanent obliquity
																																																																																										  with reference to the room; though, in truth, infallibly straight
																																																																																										  itself, it but made obvious the false, lying levels among which it
																																																																																										  hung. The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his berth his
																																																																																										  tormented eyes roll round the place, and this thus far successful
																																																																																										  fugitive finds no refuge for his restless glance. But that
																																																																																										  contradiction in the lamp more and more appals him. The floor, the
																																																																																										  ceiling, and the side, are all awry. ‘Oh! so my conscience hangs in
																																																																																										  me!’ he groans, ‘straight upwards, so it be
																																																																																										  occupation? Whence comest thou? Thy country? What people? But mark now,
																																																																																										  my shipmates, the behavior of poor Jonah. The eager mariners but ask
																																																																																										  him who he is, and where from; whereas, they not only receive an answer
																																																																																										  to those questions, but likewise another answer to a question not put
																																																																																										  by them, but the unsolicited answer is forced from Jonah by the hard
																																																																																										  hand of God that is upon him.

																																																																																										  “‘I am a Hebrew,’ he cries—and then—‘I fear the Lord the God of Heaven
																																																																																										  who hath made the sea and the dry land!’ Fear him, O Jonah? Aye, well
																																																																																										  mightest thou fear the Lord God _then!_ Straightway, he now goes on to
																																																																																										  make a full confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more
																																																																																										  appalled, but still are pitiful. For when Jonah, not yet supplicating
																																																																																										  God for mercy, since he but too well knew the darkness of his
																																																																																										  deserts,—when wretched Jonah cries out to them to take him and cast him
																																																																																										  forth into the sea, for he knew that for _his_ sake this great tempest
																																																																																										  was upon them; they mercifully turn from him, and seek by other means
																																																																																										  to save the ship. But all in vain; the indignant gale howls louder;
																																																																																										  then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the other they not
																																																																																										  unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.

																																																																																										  “And now behold Jonah taken up as an anchor and dropped into the sea;
																																																																																										  when instantly an oily calmness flood is everywhere; Tarshish he never
																																																																																										  reached. As we have seen, God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed
																																																																																										  him down to living gulfs of doom, and with swift slantings tore him
																																																																																										  along ‘into the midst of the seas,’ where the eddying depths sucked him
																																																																																										  ten thousand fathoms down, and ‘the weeds were wrapped about his head,’
																																																																																										  and all the watery world of woe bowled over him. Yet even then beyond
																																																																																										  the reach of any plummet—‘out of the belly of hell’—when the whale
																																																																																										  grounded upon the ocean’s utmost bones, even then, God heard the
																																																																																										  engulphed, repenting prophet when he cried. Then God spake unto the
																																																																																										  fish; and from the shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale
																																																																																										  came breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the
																																																																																										  delights of air and earth; and ‘vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;’
																																																																																										  when the word of the Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and
																																																																																										  beaten—his ears, like two sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring
																																																																																										  of the ocean—Jonah did the Almighty’s bidding. And what was that,
																																																																																										  shipmates? To preach the Truth to the face of Falsehood! That was it!

																																																																																										  “This, shipmates, this is that other lesson; and woe to that piloling whistle of astonishment. He
																																																																																										  would then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number
																																																																																										  one each time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was
																																																																																										  only by such a large number of fifties being found together, that his
																																																																																										  astonishment at the multitude of pages was excited.

																																																																																										  With much interest I sat watching him. Savage though he was, and
																																																																																										  hideously marred about the face—at least to my taste—his countenance
																																																																																										  yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable. You
																																																																																										  cannot hide the soul. Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I
																																																																																										  saw the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes,
																																																																																										  fiery black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a
																																																																																										  thousand devils. And besides all this, there was a certain lofty
																																																																																										  bearing about the Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not
																																																																																										  altogether maim. He looked like a man who had never cringed and never
																																																																																										  had had a creditor. Whether it was, too, that his head being shaved,
																																																																																										  his forehead was drawn out in freer and brighter relief, and looked
																																																																																										  more expansive than it otherwise would, this I will not venture to
																																																																																										  decide; but certain it was his head was phrenologically an excellent
																																																																																										  one. It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General Washington’s
																																																																																										  head, as seen in the popular busts of him. It had the same long
																																																																																										  regularly graded retreating slope from above the brows pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness
																																																																																										  has proved but hollow courtesy. I drew my bench near him, and made some
																																																																																										  friendly signs and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile. At
																																																																																										  first he little noticed these advances; but presently, upon my
																																																																																										  referring to his last night’s hospitalities, he made out to ask me
																																																																																										  whether we were again to be bedfellows. I told him yes; whereat I
																																																																																										  thought he looked pleased, perhaps a little complimented.

																																																																																										  We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored to explain to
																																																																																										  him the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few pictures
																																																																																										  that were in it. Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we
																																																																																										  went to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to
																																																																																										  be seen in this famous town. Soon I proposed a social smoke; and,
																																																																																										  producing his pouch and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff. And
																																																																																										  then we sat exchanging puffs from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it
																																																																																										  regularly passing between us.

																																																																																										  If there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan’s
																																																																																										  breast, this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and
																																																																																										  left us cronies. He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and
																																																																																										  unbiddenly as I to him; and when our smoke was over, he pressed his
																																																																																										  forehead against mine, clasped me round the waist, and said that
																																																																																										  henceforth we were married; meaning, in his country’s phrase, that we
																																																																																										  were bst, by reason of our confabulations, what
																																																																																										  little nappishness remained in us altogether departed, and we felt like
																																																																																										  getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the future.

																																																																																										  Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent position
																																																																																										  began to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves
																																																																																										  sitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the
																																																																																										  head-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two
																																																																																										  noses bending over them, as if our kneepans were warming-pans. We felt
																																																																																										  very nice and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors;
																																																																																										  indeed out of bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the
																																																																																										  room. The more so, I say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some
																																																																																										  small part of you must be cold, for there is no quality in this world
																																																																																										  that is not what it is merely by contrast. Nothing exists in itself. If
																																																																																										  you flatter yourself that you are all over comfortable, and have been
																																																																																										  so a long time, then you cannot be said to be comfortable any more. But
																																																																																										  if, like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip of your nose or the crown
																																																																																										  of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed, in the general
																																																																																										  consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm. For
																																																																																										  this reason a sleeping apartment shouer or
																																																																																										  two. His father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and
																																																																																										  on the maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of
																																																																																										  unconquerable warriors. There was excellent blood in his veins—royal
																																																																																										  stuff; though sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he
																																																																																										  nourished in his untutored youth.

																																																																																										  A Sag Harbor ship visited his father’s bay, and Queequeg sought a
																																																																																										  passage to Christian lands. But the ship, having her full complement of
																																																																																										  seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father’s influence
																																																																																										  could prevail. But Queequeg vowed a vow. Alone in his canoe, he paddled
																																																																																										  off to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when
																																																																																										  she quitted the island. On one side was a coral reef; on the other a
																																																																																										  low tongue of land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into
																																																																																										  the water. Hiding his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, with
																																																																																										  its prow seaward, he sat down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and
																																																																																										  when the ship was gliding by, like a flash he darted out; gained her
																																																																																										  side; with one backward dash of his foot capsized and sank his canoe;
																																																																																										  climbed up the chains; and throwing himself at full length upon the
																																																																																										  deck, grappled a ring-bolt there, and swore not to let it go, though
																																																																																										  hacked in pieces.

																																																																																										  In vain the captain threatened to throw him overboard; suspended a
																																																																																										  cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the son of a King, and
																																																																																										  Queequege of great usefulness to one, who, like me, was
																																																																																										  wholly ignorant of the mysteries of whaling, though well acquainted
																																																																																										  with the sea, as known to merchant seamen.

																																																																																										  His story being ended with his pipe’s last dying puff, Queequeg
																																																																																										  embraced me, pressed his forehead against mine, and blowing out the
																																																																																										  light, we rolled over from each other, this way and that, and very soon
																																																																																										  were sleeping.


																																																																																										  CHAPTER 13. Wheelbarrow.

																																																																																										  Next morning, Monday, after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber,
																																																																																										  for a block, I settled my own and comrade’s bill; using, however, my
																																																																																										  comrade’s money. The grinning landlord, as well as the boarders, seemed
																																																																																										  amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between
																																																																																										  me and Queequeg—especially as Peter Coffin’s cock and bull stories
																																																																																										  about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person
																																																																																										  whom I now companied with.

																																																																																										  We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our things, including my own
																																																																																										  poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg’s canvas sack and hammock, away we went
																																																																																										  down to “the Moss,” the little Nantucket packet schooner moored at the
																																																																																										  wharf. As we were going along the people stared; not at Queequeg so
																																																																																										  much—for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their
																																																																																										  streets,—but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms. But we
																																																																																										  heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg
																																																																																										  now and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs. I
																																																																																										  asked him why he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and
																																																																																										  whether all whaling ships did not find their own harpoond King, especially in the King’s own
																																																																																										  house—the Captain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in the
																																																																																										  punchbowl;—taking it I suppose for a huge finger-glass. “Now,” said
																																																																																										  Queequeg, “what you tink now?—Didn’t our people laugh?”

																																																																																										  At last, passage paid, and luggage safe, we stood on board the
																																																																																										  schooner. Hoisting sail, it glided down the Acushnet river. On one
																																																																																										  side, New Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered trees
																																																																																										  all glittering in the clear, cold air. Huge hills and mountains of
																																																																																										  casks on casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the
																																																																																										  world-wandering whale ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while
																																																																																										  from others came a sound of carpenters and coopers, with blended noises
																																																																																										  of fires and forges to melt the pitch, all betokening that new cruises
																																																																																										  were on the start; that one most perilous and long voyage ended, only
																																																																																										  begins a second; and a second ended, only begins a third, and so on,
																																																																																										  for ever and for aye. Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerableness
																																																																																										  of all earthly effort.

																																																																																										  Gaining the more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little
																																																																																										  Moss tossed the quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his
																																																																																										  snortings. How I snuffed that Tartar air!—how I spurned that turnpike
																																																																																										  earth!—t the point of
																																																																																										  snapping into splinters. Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable
																																																																																										  of being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing
																																																																																										  the boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale. In the
																																																																																										  midst of this consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and
																																																																																										  crawling under the path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured
																																																																																										  one end to the bulwarks, and then flinging the other like a lasso,
																																																																																										  caught it round the boom as it swept over his head, and at the next
																																																																																										  jerk, the spar was that way trapped, and all was safe. The schooner was
																																																																																										  run into the wind, and while the hands were clearing away the stern
																																																																																										  boat, Queequeg, stripped to the waist, darted from the side with a long
																																																																																										  living arc of a leap. For three minutes or more he was seen swimming
																																																																																										  like a dog, throwing his long arms straight out before him, and by
																																																																																										  turns revealing his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam. I
																																																																																										  looked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one to be saved.
																																																																																										  The greenhorn had gone down. Shooting himself perpendicularly from the
																																																																																										  water, Queequeg, now took an instant’s glance around him, and seeming
																																																																																										  to see just how matters were, dived down and disappeared. A few minutes
																																																																																										  more, and he rose again, one arm still striking out, and with the other
																																																																																										  dragging a lifeless form. The boat soon picked them up. The poor
																																																																																										  bumpkin was restored. All hands voted Queequeg a n; and at last,
																																																																																										  launching a navy of great ships on the sea, explored this watery world;
																																																																																										  put an incessant belt of circumnavigations round it; peeped in at
																																																																																										  Behring’s Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans declared
																																																																																										  everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived the
																																																																																										  flood; most monstrous and most mountainous! That Himmalehan, salt-sea
																																																																																										  Mastodon, clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, that
																																																																																										  his very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and
																																																																																										  malicious assaults!

																																																																																										  And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea hermits, issuing from
																																																																																										  their ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world like
																																																																																										  so many Alexanders; parcelling out among them the Atlantic, Pacific,
																																																																																										  and Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did Poland. Let America
																																																																																										  add Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the English
																																																																																										  overswarm all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun;
																																																																																										  two thirds of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer’s. For the sea
																																																																																										  is his; he owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a
																																																																																										  right of way through it. Merchant ships are but extension bridges;
																																																																																										  armed ones but floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though
																																																																																										  following the sea as highwaymen the road, they eequeg, and one for me. It’s ominous, thinks
																																																																																										  I. A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port;
																																																																																										  tombstones staring at me in the whalemen’s chapel; and here a gallows!
																																																																																										  and a pair of prodigious black pots too! Are these last throwing out
																																																																																										  oblique hints touching Tophet?

																																																																																										  I was called from these reflections by the sight of a freckled woman
																																																																																										  with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of the inn,
																																																																																										  under a dull red lamp swinging there, that looked much like an injured
																																																																																										  eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen
																																																																																										  shirt.

																																																																																										  “Get along with ye,” said she to the man, “or I’ll be combing ye!”

																																																																																										  “Come on, Queequeg,” said I, “all right. There’s Mrs. Hussey.”

																																																																																										  And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving
																																																																																										  Mrs. Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs. Upon
																																																																																										  making known our desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey,
																																																																																										  postponing further scolding for the present, ushered us into a little
																																																																																										  room, and seating us at a table spread with the relics of a recently
																																																																																										  concluded repast, turned round to us and said—“Clam or Cod?”

																																																																																										  “What’s that about Cods, ma’am?” said I, with much politeness.

																																																																																										  “Clam or Cod?” she repeated.

																																																																																										  “A clam for supper? a cold clam; is _that_ w; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers. “Why not?” said I;
																																																																																										  “every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon—but why not?” “Because
																																																																																										  it’s dangerous,” says she. “Ever since young Stiggs coming from that
																																																																																										  unfort’nt v’y’ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with
																																																																																										  only three barrels of _ile_, was found dead in my first floor back,
																																																																																										  with his harpoon in his side; ever since then I allow no boarders to
																																																																																										  take sich dangerous weepons in their rooms at night. So, Mr. Queequeg”
																																																																																										  (for she had learned his name), “I will just take this here iron, and
																																																																																										  keep it for you till morning. But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow
																																																																																										  for breakfast, men?”

																																																																																										  “Both,” says I; “and let’s have a couple of smoked herring by way of
																																																																																										  variety.”


																																																																																										  CHAPTER 16. The Ship.

																																																																																										  In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow. But to my surprise and no
																																																																																										  small concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand, that he had been
																																																																																										  diligently consulting Yojo—the name of his black little god—and Yojo
																																																																																										  had told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it
																																																																																										  everyway, that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet in
																																																																																										  harbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say,
																																																																																										  Yojo earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest
																																																																																										  wholly with me, inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order
																																																																																										  to do so, had already pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself,
																																																																																										  I, Ishmael, should infallibly light upon, for all the world as though
																																																																																										  it had turned out by chance; and in that vessel Iut somewhere on the coast of
																																																																																										  Japan, where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale—her masts
																																																																																										  stood stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne. Her
																																																																																										  ancient decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped
																																																																																										  flag-stone in Canterbury Cathedral where Becket bled. But to all these
																																																																																										  her old antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining
																																																																																										  to the wild business that for more than half a century she had
																																																																																										  followed. Old Captain Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he
																																																																																										  commanded another vessel of his own, and now a retired seaman, and one
																																																																																										  of the principal owners of the Pequod,—this old Peleg, during the term
																																																																																										  of his chief-mateship, had built upon her original grotesqueness, and
																																																																																										  inlaid it, all over, with a quaintness both of material and device,
																																																																																										  unmatched by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake’s carved buckler or
																																																																																										  bedstead. She was apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his
																																																																																										  neck heavy with pendants of polished ivory. She was a thing of
																																																																																										  trophies. A cannibal of a craft, tricking herself forth in the chased
																																																																																										  bones of her enemies. All round, her unpanelled, open bulwarks were
																																																																																										  garnished like one continuous jaw, with the long sharp teeth of the
																																																																																										  sperm whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten heages in the merchant service, and I think that—”

																																																																																										  “Merchant service be damned. Talk not that lingo to me. Dost see that
																																																																																										  leg?—I’ll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest of
																																																																																										  the marchant service to me again. Marchant service indeed! I suppose
																																																																																										  now ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant
																																																																																										  ships. But flukes! man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh?—it
																																																																																										  looks a little suspicious, don’t it, eh?—Hast not been a pirate, hast
																																																																																										  thou?—Didst not rob thy last Captain, didst thou?—Dost not think of
																																																																																										  murdering the officers when thou gettest to sea?”

																																																																																										  I protested my innocence of these things. I saw that under the mask of
																																																																																										  these half humorous innuendoes, this old seaman, as an insulated
																																																																																										  Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and rather
																																																																																										  distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the
																																																																																										  Vineyard.

																																																																																										  “But what takes thee a-whaling? I want to know that before I think of
																																																																																										  shipping ye.”

																																																																																										  “Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is. I want to see the world.”

																																																																																										  “Want to see what whaling is, eh? Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab?”

																																																																																										  “Who is Captain Ahab, sir?”

																																																																																										  “Aye, aye, I thought so. Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship.”

																																																																																										  “I am mistaken then. I thought I was speaking to the Captain himself.”

																																																																																										  “Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg—that’s who ye are speaking to,
																																																																																										  young man. It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted
																																																																																										  out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including crew.,” I replied—“nothing but water; considerable horizon though,
																																																																																										  and there’s a squall coming up, I think.”

																																																																																										  “Well, what does thou think then of seeing the world? Do ye wish to go
																																																																																										  round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh? Can’t ye see the world where
																																																																																										  you stand?”

																																																																																										  I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would; and the
																																																																																										  Pequod was as good a ship as any—I thought the best—and all this I now
																																																																																										  repeated to Peleg. Seeing me so determined, he expressed his
																																																																																										  willingness to ship me.

																																																																																										  “And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off,” he added—“come
																																																																																										  along with ye.” And so saying, he led the way below deck into the
																																																																																										  cabin.

																																																																																										  Seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and
																																																																																										  surprising figure. It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along with
																																																																																										  Captain Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the other
																																																																																										  shares, as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd
																																																																																										  of old annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards;
																																																																																										  each owning about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a
																																																																																										  nail or two in the ship. People in Nantucket invest their money in
																																																																																										  whaling vessels, the sameinvaders, yet himself
																																																																																										  had illimitably invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn
																																																																																										  foe to human bloodshed, yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled
																																																																																										  tuns upon tuns of leviathan gore. How now in the contemplative evening
																																																																																										  of his days, the pious Bildad reconciled these things in the
																																																																																										  reminiscence, I do not know; but it did not seem to concern him much,
																																																																																										  and very probably he had long since come to the sage and sensible
																																																																																										  conclusion that a man’s religion is one thing, and this practical world
																																																																																										  quite another. This world pays dividends. Rising from a little
																																																																																										  cabin-boy in short clothes of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a
																																																																																										  broad shad-bellied waistcoat; from that becoming boat-header,
																																																																																										  chief-mate, and captain, and finally a ship owner; Bildad, as I hinted
																																																																																										  before, had concluded his adventurous career by wholly retiring from
																																																																																										  active life at the goodly age of sixty, and dedicating his remaining
																																																																																										  days to the quiet receiving of his well-earned income.

																																																																																										  Now, Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of being an
																																																																																										  incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard
																																																																																										  task-master. They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a
																																																																																										  curious story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew,
																																																																																										  upon arriving home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital,
																																																																																										  sore exhausted and worn out. For a pious man, especially for a Quaker,
																																																																																										  he was certald not be very large; but considering that I was used to the
																																																																																										  sea, could steer a ship, splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt
																																																																																										  that from all I had heard I should be offered at least the 275th
																																																																																										  lay—that is, the 275th part of the clear net proceeds of the voyage,
																																																																																										  whatever that might eventually amount to. And though the 275th lay was
																																																																																										  what they call a rather _long lay_, yet it was better than nothing; and
																																																																																										  if we had a lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay for the clothing I
																																																																																										  would wear out on it, not to speak of my three years’ beef and board,
																																																																																										  for which I would not have to pay one stiver.

																																																																																										  It might be thought that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely
																																																																																										  fortune—and so it was, a very poor way indeed. But I am one of those
																																																																																										  that never take on about princely fortunes, and am quite content if the
																																																																																										  world is ready to board and lodge me, while I am putting up at this
																																																																																										  grim sign of the Thunder Cloud. Upon the whole, I thought that the
																																																																																										  275th lay would be about the fair thing, but would not have been
																																																																																										  surprised had I been offered the 200th, considering I was of a
																																																																																										  broad-shouldered make.

																																																																																										  But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little distrustful about
																																																																																										  receiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore, I had heard
																																																																																										  something of bohat would be
																																																																																										  heavy enough to founder the largest ship that ever sailed round Cape
																																																																																										  Horn.”

																																																																																										  “Captain Peleg,” said Bildad steadily, “thy conscience may be drawing
																																																																																										  ten inches of water, or ten fathoms, I can’t tell; but as thou art
																																																																																										  still an impenitent man, Captain Peleg, I greatly fear lest thy
																																																																																										  conscience be but a leaky one; and will in the end sink thee foundering
																																																																																										  down to the fiery pit, Captain Peleg.”

																																																																																										  “Fiery pit! fiery pit! ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye
																																																																																										  insult me. It’s an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that
																																																																																										  he’s bound to hell. Flukes and flames! Bildad, say that again to me,
																																																																																										  and start my soul-bolts, but I’ll—I’ll—yes, I’ll swallow a live goat
																																																																																										  with all his hair and horns on. Out of the cabin, ye canting,
																																																																																										  drab-coloured son of a wooden gun—a straight wake with ye!”

																																																																																										  As he thundered out this he made a rush at Bildad, but with a
																																																																																										  marvellous oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that time eluded him.

																																																																																										  Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal and
																																																																																										  responsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up all
																																																																																										  idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily
																																																																																										  commanded, I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who,
																																																																																										  I made no doubt, was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened
																																																																																										  wrath of Peleg. But to my astonishment, he sat down again on the
																																																																																										  transom very quietly, and seemed to have not the slightest intention of
																																																																																										  withdrawing. He seemed quite used to impenitent Peleg and his ways. As
																																																																																										  for Peleg, after letting off his rage as he had, there seemed no more
																																																																																										  left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb, though he twitched a
																																																																																										  little as if still nervously agitated. “Whew!” he whistled at lalike him well enough; no
																																																																																										  fear, no fear. He’s a grand, ungodly, god-like man, Captain Ahab;
																																																																																										  doesn’t speak much; but, when he does speak, then you may well listen.
																																																																																										  Mark ye, be forewarned; Ahab’s above the common; Ahab’s been in
																																																																																										  colleges, as well as ’mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders
																																																																																										  than the waves; fixed his fiery lance in mightier, stranger foes than
																																																																																										  whales. His lance! aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our
																																																																																										  isle! Oh! he ain’t Captain Bildad; no, and he ain’t Captain Peleg;
																																																																																										  _he’s Ahab_, boy; and Ahab of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!”

																																																																																										  “And a very vile one. When that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did
																																																																																										  they not lick his blood?”

																																																																																										  “Come hither to me—hither, hither,” said Peleg, with a significance in
																																																																																										  his eye that almost startled me. “Look ye, lad; never say that on board
																																																																																										  the Pequod. Never say it anywhere. Captain Ahab did not name himself.
																																																																																										  ’Twas a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died
																																																																																										  when he was only a twelvemonth old. And yet the old squaw Tistig, at
																																																																																										  Gayhead, said that the name would somehow prove prophetic. And,
																																																																																										  perhaps, other fools like her may tell thee the same. I wish to warn
																																																																																										  thee. It’s a lie. I know Captain Ahab well; I’ve sailed with him as
																																																																																										  mate years ago; I know what he is—a good man—not a pious, good man,
																																																																																										  like Bildad, bd to be content;
																																																																																										  and there let him rest. All our arguing with him would not avail; let
																																																																																										  him be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all—Presbyterians and Pagans
																																																																																										  alike—for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and
																																																																																										  sadly need mending.

																																																																																										  Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances and
																																																																																										  rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door;
																																																																																										  but no answer. I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside.
																																																																																										  “Queequeg,” said I softly through the key-hole:—all silent. “I say,
																																																																																										  Queequeg! why don’t you speak? It’s I—Ishmael.” But all remained still
																																																																																										  as before. I began to grow alarmed. I had allowed him such abundant
																																																																																										  time; I thought he might have had an apoplectic fit. I looked through
																																																																																										  the key-hole; but the door opening into an odd corner of the room, the
																																																																																										  key-hole prospect was but a crooked and sinister one. I could only see
																																																																																										  part of the foot-board of the bed and a line of the wall, but nothing
																																																																																										  more. I was surprised to behold resting against the wall the wooden
																																																																																										  shaft of Queequeg’s harpoon, which the landlady the evening previous
																																																																																										  had taken from him, before our mounting to the chamber. That’s strange,
																																																																																										  thought I; but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he
																																																																																										  seldom or never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside
																																																																																										  here, and no possible mistake.

																																																																																										  “Queequeg!—Queequting her
																																																																																										  hand in her side-pocket, “here’s a key that’ll fit, I guess; let’s
																																																																																										  see.” And with that, she turned it in the lock; but, alas! Queequeg’s
																																																																																										  supplemental bolt remained unwithdrawn within.

																																																																																										  “Have to burst it open,” said I, and was running down the entry a
																																																																																										  little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again vowing
																																																																																										  I should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a
																																																																																										  sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark.

																																																																																										  With a prodigious noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming
																																																																																										  against the wall, sent the plaster to the ceiling; and there, good
																																																																																										  heavens! there sat Queequeg, altogether cool and self-collected; right
																																																																																										  in the middle of the room; squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on
																																																																																										  top of his head. He looked neither one way nor the other way, but sat
																																																																																										  like a carved image with scarce a sign of active life.

																																																																																										  “Queequeg,” said I, going up to him, “Queequeg, what’s the matter with
																																																																																										  you?”

																																																																																										  “He hain’t been a sittin’ so all day, has he?” said the landlady.

																																																																																										  But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost felt
																																																																																										  like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost
																																																																																										  intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally constrained;
																																																																																										  especially, as in all probability he had been siwhere I lay; pressed his
																																																																																										  forehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.

																																																																																										  Now, as I before hinted, I have no objection to any person’s religion,
																																																																																										  be it what it may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any
																																																																																										  other person, because that other person don’t believe it also. But when
																																																																																										  a man’s religion becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment
																																																																																										  to him; and, in fine, makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to
																																																																																										  lodge in; then I think it high time to take that individual aside and
																																																																																										  argue the point with him.

																																																																																										  And just so I now did with Queequeg. “Queequeg,” said I, “get into bed
																																																																																										  now, and lie and listen to me.” I then went on, beginning with the rise
																																																																																										  and progress of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various
																																																																																										  religions of the present time, during which time I labored to show
																																																																																										  Queequeg that all these Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings
																																																																																										  in cold, cheerless rooms were stark nonsense; bad for the health;
																																																																																										  useless for the soul; opposed, in short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene
																																																																																										  and common sense. I told him, too, that he being in other things such
																																																																																										  an extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it pained me, very badly
																																																																																										  pained me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about this ridiculous
																																																																																										  Ramadan of his. Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body cave in;
																																																																																										  hence the spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a nding on the wharf.

																																																																																										  “I mean,” he replied, “he must show his papers.”

																																																																																										  “Yes,” said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head from
																																																																																										  behind Peleg’s, out of the wigwam. “He must show that he’s converted.
																																																																																										  Son of darkness,” he added, turning to Queequeg, “art thou at present
																																																																																										  in communion with any Christian church?”

																																																																																										  “Why,” said I, “he’s a member of the first Congregational Church.” Here
																																																																																										  be it said, that many tattooed savages sailing in Nantucket ships at
																																																																																										  last come to be converted into the churches.

																																																																																										  “First Congregational Church,” cried Bildad, “what! that worships in
																																																																																										  Deacon Deuteronomy Coleman’s meeting-house?” and so saying, taking out
																																																																																										  his spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana
																																																																																										  handkerchief, and putting them on very carefully, came out of the
																																																																																										  wigwam, and leaning stiffly over the bulwarks, took a good long look at
																																																																																										  Queequeg.

																																																																																										  “How long hath he been a member?” he then said, turning to me; “not
																																																																																										  very long, I rather guess, young man.”

																																																																																										  “No,” said Peleg, “and he hasn’t been baptized right either, or it
																																																																																										  would have washed some of that devil’s blue off his face.”

																																																																																										  “Do tell, now,” cried Bildad, “is this Philistine a regular member of
																																																																																										  Deacon Deuteronomy’s meeting? I never saw him going there, and I pass
																																																																																										  it every Lord’s day.”

																																																																																										  “I don’t know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeting,” said
																																																																																										  I; “all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the First
																																																																																										  Congregational Church. He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is.”

																																																																																										  “Young man,” said Bildad sternly, “thou art skylarking witwrite, does he? I say, Quohog, blast ye! dost thou sign thy name
																																																																																										  or make thy mark?”

																																																																																										  But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken
																																																																																										  part in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking the
																																																																																										  offered pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact
																																																																																										  counterpart of a queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so
																																																																																										  that through Captain Peleg’s obstinate mistake touching his
																																																																																										  appellative, it stood something like this:—

																																																																																										  Quohog. his X mark.

																																																																																										  Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and steadfastly eyeing Queequeg,
																																																																																										  and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the huge pockets of his
																																																																																										  broad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts, and selecting one
																																																																																										  entitled “The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose,” placed it in
																																																																																										  Queequeg’s hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his,
																																																																																										  looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, “Son of darkness, I must do
																																																																																										  my duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for
																																																																																										  the souls of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways,
																																																																																										  which I sadly fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial
																																																																																										  bondsman. Spurn the idol Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from the
																																																																																										  wrath to come; mind thine eye, I say; oh! goodness gracious! steer
																																																																																										  clear of the fiery pit!”

																																																																																										  Something of the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad’s language,
																																																																																										  heterogeneously muninterrupted look at him.

																																																																																										  “Aye, the Pequod—that ship there,” he said, drawing back his whole arm,
																																																																																										  and then rapidly shoving it straight out from him, with the fixed
																																																																																										  bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the object.

																																																																																										  “Yes,” said I, “we have just signed the articles.”

																																																																																										  “Anything down there about your souls?”

																																																																																										  “About what?”

																																																																																										  “Oh, perhaps you hav’n’t got any,” he said quickly. “No matter though,
																																																																																										  I know many chaps that hav’n’t got any,—good luck to ’em; and they are
																																																																																										  all the better off for it. A soul’s a sort of a fifth wheel to a
																																																																																										  wagon.”

																																																																																										  “What are you jabbering about, shipmate?” said I.

																																																																																										  “_He’s_ got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that
																																																																																										  sort in other chaps,” abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous
																																																																																										  emphasis upon the word _he_.

																																																																																										  “Queequeg,” said I, “let’s go; this fellow has broken loose from
																																																																																										  somewhere; he’s talking about something and somebody we don’t know.”

																																																																																										  “Stop!” cried the stranger. “Ye said true—ye hav’n’t seen Old Thunder
																																																																																										  yet, have ye?”

																																																																																										  “Who’s Old Thunder?” said I, again riveted with the insane earnestness
																																																																																										  of his manner.

																																																																																										  “Captain Ahab.”

																																																																																										  “What! the captain of our ship, the Pequod?”

																																																																																										  “Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name. Ye
																																																																																										  hav’n’t seen him yet, have ye?”

																																																																																										  “No, we hav’n’t. He’s sick they say, but is getting better, and will be
																																																																																										  all right again before long.”

																																																																																										  “All , shipmates,
																																																																																										  morning! Oh! when ye get there, tell ’em I’ve concluded not to make one
																																																																																										  of ’em.”

																																																																																										  “Ah, my dear fellow, you can’t fool us that way—you can’t fool us. It
																																																																																										  is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a
																																																																																										  great secret in him.”

																																																																																										  “Morning to ye, shipmates, morning.”

																																																																																										  “Morning it is,” said I. “Come along, Queequeg, let’s leave this crazy
																																																																																										  man. But stop, tell me your name, will you?”

																																																																																										  “Elijah.”

																																																																																										  Elijah! thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after each
																																																																																										  other’s fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he was
																																																																																										  nothing but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear. But we had not gone
																																																																																										  perhaps above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and
																																																																																										  looking back as I did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us,
																																																																																										  though at a distance. Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I
																																																																																										  said nothing to Queequeg of his being behind, but passed on with my
																																																																																										  comrade, anxious to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner
																																																																																										  that we did. He did; and then it seemed to me that he was dogging us,
																																																																																										  but with what intent I could not for the life of me imagine. This
																																																																																										  circumstance, coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting, half-revealing,
																																																																																										  shrouded sort of talk, now begat in me all kinds of vague wonderments
																																																																																										  and half-apprehensions, and all connected with the Pequod; and Captain
																																																																																										  Ahab; and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn fit; and the silver
																																																																																										  calabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when I left the ship
																																																																																										  the day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig; and the
																																																																																										  voyage we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowy
																																																																																										  things.

																																																																																										  I was resolved to satisfyCaptain and duplicate ship.

																																																																																										  At the period of our arrival at the Island, the heaviest storage of the
																																																																																										  Pequod had been almost completed; comprising her beef, bread, water,
																																																																																										  fuel, and iron hoops and staves. But, as before hinted, for some time
																																																																																										  there was a continual fetching and carrying on board of divers odds and
																																																																																										  ends of things, both large and small.

																																																																																										  Chief among those who did this fetching and carrying was Captain
																																																																																										  Bildad’s sister, a lean old lady of a most determined and indefatigable
																																																																																										  spirit, but withal very kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if _she_
																																																																																										  could help it, nothing should be found wanting in the Pequod, after
																																																																																										  once fairly getting to sea. At one time she would come on board with a
																																																																																										  jar of pickles for the steward’s pantry; another time with a bunch of
																																																																																										  quills for the chief mate’s desk, where he kept his log; a third time
																																																																																										  with a roll of flannel for the small of some one’s rheumatic back.
																																																																																										  Never did any woman better deserve her name, which was Charity—Aunt
																																																																																										  Charity, as everybody called her. And like a sister of charity did this
																																																																																										  charitable Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither, ready to turn
																																																																																										  her hand and heart to anything that promised to yield safety, comfort,
																																																																																										  and consolation to all on board a ship in which her beloved brother
																																																																																										  Bildad was concerned, and in which she herself owned a score or two of
																																																																																										  well-saved dollars.

																																																																																										  But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on
																																																																																										  board, as she did the last day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and
																																																																																										  a  withdrawing. We
																																																																																										  are going to the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and would prefer not to be
																																																																																										  detained.”

																																																																																										  “Ye be, be ye? Coming back afore breakfast?”

																																																																																										  “He’s cracked, Queequeg,” said I, “come on.”

																																																																																										  “Holloa!” cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few
																																																																																										  paces.

																																																																																										  “Never mind him,” said I, “Queequeg, come on.”

																																																																																										  But he stole up to us again, and suddenly clapping his hand on my
																																																																																										  shoulder, said—“Did ye see anything looking like men going towards that
																																																																																										  ship a while ago?”

																																																																																										  Struck by this plain matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying, “Yes,
																																																																																										  I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure.”

																																																																																										  “Very dim, very dim,” said Elijah. “Morning to ye.”

																																																																																										  Once more we quitted him; but once more he came softly after us; and
																																																																																										  touching my shoulder again, said, “See if you can find ’em now, will
																																																																																										  ye?

																																																																																										  “Find who?”

																																																																																										  “Morning to ye! morning to ye!” he rejoined, again moving off. “Oh! I
																																																																																										  was going to warn ye against—but never mind, never mind—it’s all one,
																																																																																										  all in the family too;—sharp frost this morning, ain’t it? Good-bye to
																																																																																										  ye. Shan’t see ye again very soon, I guess; unless it’s before the
																																																																																										  Grand Jury.” And with these cracked words he finally departed, leaving
																																																																																										  me, for the moment, in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence.

																																																																																										  At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found everything in profound
																																																																																										  quiet, not a soul moving. The cabin entr, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed
																																																																																										  his soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger. The
																																																																																										  strong vapor now completely filling the contracted hole, it began to
																																																																																										  tell upon him. He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed
																																																																																										  troubled in the nose; then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and
																																																																																										  rubbed his eyes.

																																																																																										  “Holloa!” he breathed at last, “who be ye smokers?”

																																																																																										  “Shipped men,” answered I, “when does she sail?”

																																																																																										  “Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye? She sails to-day. The Captain
																																																																																										  came aboard last night.”

																																																																																										  “What Captain?—Ahab?”

																																																																																										  “Who but him indeed?”

																																																																																										  I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we
																																																																																										  heard a noise on deck.

																																																																																										  “Holloa! Starbuck’s astir,” said the rigger. “He’s a lively chief mate,
																																																																																										  that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn to.” And so
																																																																																										  saying he went on deck, and we followed.

																																																																																										  It was now clear sunrise. Soon the crew came on board in twos and
																																																																																										  threes; the riggers bestirred themselves; the mates were actively
																																																																																										  engaged; and several of the shore people were busy in bringing various
																																																																																										  last things on board. Meanwhile Captain Ahab remained invisibly
																																																																																										  enshrined within his cabin.


																																																																																										  CHAPTER 22. Merry Christmas.

																																																																																										  At length, towards noon, upon the final dismissal of the ship’s
																																																																																										  riggers, and after the Pequod had been hauled out from the wharf, and
																																																																																										  after the ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a whale-boat, with
																																																																																										  her last giftâover the bows for the
																																																																																										  approaching anchor, and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave
																																																																																										  of psalmody, to cheer the hands at the windlass, who roared forth some
																																																																																										  sort of a chorus about the girls in Booble Alley, with hearty good
																																																																																										  will. Nevertheless, not three days previous, Bildad had told them that
																																																																																										  no profane songs would be allowed on board the Pequod, particularly in
																																																																																										  getting under weigh; and Charity, his sister, had placed a small choice
																																																																																										  copy of Watts in each seaman’s berth.

																																																																																										  Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg ripped
																																																																																										  and swore astern in the most frightful manner. I almost thought he
																																																																																										  would sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I
																																																																																										  paused on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of
																																																																																										  the perils we both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for
																																																																																										  a pilot. I was comforting myself, however, with the thought that in
																																																																																										  pious Bildad might be found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred
																																																																																										  and seventy-seventh lay; when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear,
																																																																																										  and turning round, was horrified at the apparition of Captain Peleg in
																																																																																										  the act of withdrawing his leg from my immediate vicinity. That was my
																																																																																										  first kick.

																																																																																										  “Is that the way they heave in the marchant service?” he roared.
																																																																																										  “Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and break thy backbone! Why don’t ye
																																																																																										  spring, I say, all of ye—spring! Quohog! spring, thou chap with the red
																																																																																										  whiskers; spring there, Scotch-cap; spring, thou green pants. Spring, I
																																																																																										  say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!” And so saying, he moved
																																																																																										  along the windlass, here and there using his leg very freely, while
																																																																																										  imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody. Thinks I,
																																																																																										  Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.

																																																																																										  At last the anchor was up, the sails were set, and off we glided. It
																																																																																										  was a short, cold Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into
																																																																																										  night, we found ourselves almost broad upon thehand, and holding up a lantern,
																																																																																										  for a moment stood gazing heroically in his face, as much as to say,
																																																																																										  “Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it; yes, I can.”

																																																																																										  As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but for all
																																																																																										  his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the lantern
																																																																																										  came too near. And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck—now
																																																																																										  a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.

																																																																																										  But, at last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look about
																																																																																										  him,—“Captain Bildad—come, old shipmate, we must go. Back the main-yard
																																																																																										  there! Boat ahoy! Stand by to come close alongside, now! Careful,
																																																																																										  careful!—come, Bildad, boy—say your last. Luck to ye, Starbuck—luck to
																																																																																										  ye, Mr. Stubb—luck to ye, Mr. Flask—good-bye and good luck to ye
																																																																																										  all—and this day three years I’ll have a hot supper smoking for ye in
																																																																																										  old Nantucket. Hurrah and away!”

																																																																																										  “God bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men,” murmured old
																																																																																										  Bildad, almost incoherently. “I hope ye’ll have fine weather now, so
																																																																																										  that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye—a pleasant sun is all he
																																																																																										  needs, and ye’ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go. Be
																																																																																										  careful in the hunt, ye mates. Don’t stave the boats needlessly, ye
																																																																																										  harpooneers; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent.
																																																																																										  within the year. Don’t forget your prayers, either. Mr. Starbuck, ,
																																																																																										  indefinite as God—so, better is it to perish in that howling infinite,
																																																																																										  than be ingloriously dashed upon the lee, even if that were safety! For
																																																																																										  worm-like, then, oh! who would craven crawl to land! Terrors of the
																																																																																										  terrible! is all this agony so vain? Take heart, take heart, O
																																																																																										  Bulkington! Bear thee grimly, demigod! Up from the spray of thy
																																																																																										  ocean-perishing—straight up, leaps thy apotheosis!


																																																																																										  CHAPTER 24. The Advocate.

																																																																																										  As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked in this business of whaling;
																																																																																										  and as this business of whaling has somehow come to be regarded among
																																																																																										  landsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable pursuit; therefore, I
																																																																																										  am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the injustice hereby
																																																																																										  done to us hunters of whales.

																																																																																										  In the first place, it may be deemed almost superfluous to establish
																																																																																										  the fact, that among people at large, the business of whaling is not
																																																																																										  accounted on a level with what are called the liberal professions. If a
																																																																																										  stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society,
																																																																																										  it would but slightly advance the general opinion of his merits, were
																																																																																										  he presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in emulation
																																																																																										  of the naval officers he should append the initials S.W.F. (Sperm Whale
																																																																																										  Fishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed
																																																																																										  pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.

																																																																																										  Doubtless one leading reason why the world declines honoring us
																																																																																										  whalemen, is this: they think that, at best, our the high and mighty business of whaling. One way
																																																																																										  and another, it has begotten events so remarkable in themselves, and so
																																																																																										  continuously momentous in their sequential issues, that whaling may
																																																																																										  well be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore offspring themselves
																																																																																										  pregnant from her womb. It would be a hopeless, endless task to
																																																																																										  catalogue all these things. Let a handful suffice. For many years past
																																																																																										  the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest and
																																																																																										  least known parts of the earth. She has explored seas and archipelagoes
																																																																																										  which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed. If
																																																																																										  American and European men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage
																																																																																										  harbors, let them fire salutes to the honor and glory of the
																																																																																										  whale-ship, which originally showed them the way, and first interpreted
																																																																																										  between them and the savages. They may celebrate as they will the
																																																																																										  heroes of Exploring Expeditions, your Cooks, your Krusensterns; but I
																																																																																										  say that scores of anonymous Captains have sailed out of Nantucket,
																																																																																										  that were as great, and greater than your Cook and your Krusenstern.
																																																																																										  For in their succourless empty-handedness, they, in the heathenish
																																																																																										  sharked waters, and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands,
																																																																																										  battled with virgin wonders and terrors that Cook with all his marines
																																																																																										  and muskets would not willingly have daby marriage, Mary Folger, one of the old settlers of
																																																																																										  Nantucket, and the ancestress to a long line of Folgers and
																																																																																										  harpooneers—all kith and kin to noble Benjamin—this day darting the
																																																																																										  barbed iron from one side of the world to the other.

																																																																																										  Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not
																																																																																										  respectable.

																																																																																										  _Whaling not respectable?_ Whaling is imperial! By old English
																																																																																										  statutory law, the whale is declared “a royal fish.” *

																																																																																										  Oh, that’s only nominal! The whale himself has never figured in any
																																																																																										  grand imposing way.

																																																																																										  _The whale never figured in any grand imposing way?_ In one of the
																																																																																										  mighty triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the world’s
																																																																																										  capital, the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian
																																																																																										  coast, were the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.*

																																																																																										  *See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.

																																																																																										  Grant it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no real
																																																																																										  dignity in whaling.

																																																																																										  _No dignity in whaling?_ The dignity of our calling the very heavens
																																																																																										  attest. Cetus is a constellation in the South! No more! Drive down your
																																																																																										  hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg! No more! I
																																																																																										  know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty
																																																																																										  whales. I account that man more honorable than that great captain of
																																																																																										  antiquity who boasted of taking as many walled towns.

																																																																																										  And, as for me, if, by any possibility, there be any as yet
																																																																																										  undiscovered prime thing in me; if I shall ever deserve any real repute
																																																																																										  in that small but high hushed world which I might not be unreasonably
																																																																																										  ambitious of; if hereafter I shall do anything that, upon the whole, a
																																																																																										  man might rather have done than to have left undone; if, at my death,
																																																																																										  my executors, or more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS. in
																																																																																										  my desk, then here I prospectively ascribe all the honor and the glory
																																																																																										  to whaling; for a whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.


																																																																																										  CHAPTER 25. Postscript.

																																																																																										  In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I would fain advance naught but
																																																																																										  fluousness. But this, his
																																																																																										  thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the token of wasting anxieties
																																																																																										  and cares, than it seemed the indication of any bodily blight. It was
																																																																																										  merely the condensation of the man. He was by no means ill-looking;
																																																																																										  quite the contrary. His pure tight skin was an excellent fit; and
																																																																																										  closely wrapped up in it, and embalmed with inner health and strength,
																																																																																										  like a revivified Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure for
																																																																																										  long ages to come, and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow
																																																																																										  or torrid sun, like a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was
																																																																																										  warranted to do well in all climates. Looking into his eyes, you seemed
																																																																																										  to see there the yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he
																																																																																										  had calmly confronted through life. A staid, steadfast man, whose life
																																																																																										  for the most part was a telling pantomime of action, and not a tame
																																																																																										  chapter of sounds. Yet, for all his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there
																																																																																										  were certain qualities in him which at times affected, and in some
																																																																																										  cases seemed well nigh to overbalance all the rest. Uncommonly
																																																																																										  conscientious for a seaman, and endued with a deep natural reverence,
																																																																																										  the wild watery loneliness of his life did therefore strongly incline
																																																																																										  him to superstition; but to that sort of superstition, which in some
																																																																																										  organizations seems rather to spring, somehow, from intelligence than
																																																																																										  from ignorance. Outward portents and inward presentiments were his. And
																																																																																										  if at times these things bent the welded iron of his soul, much more
																																																																																										  did his far-away domestic memories of his young Cape wife and child,
																																																																																										  tend to bend him still more from the original ruggedness of his nature,
																																																																																										  and open him  of an enraged
																																																																																										  and mighty man.

																																																																																										  But were the coming narrative to reveal in any instance, the complete
																																																																																										  abasement of poor Starbuck’s fortitude, scarce might I have the heart
																																																																																										  to write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking, to expose
																																																																																										  the fall of valour in the soul. Men may seem detestable as joint
																																																																																										  stock-companies and nations; knaves, fools, and murderers there may be;
																																																																																										  men may have mean and meagre faces; but man, in the ideal, is so noble
																																																																																										  and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing creature, that over any
																																																																																										  ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run to throw their
																																																																																										  costliest robes. That immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves, so
																																																																																										  far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer character
																																																																																										  seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle of a
																																																																																										  valor-ruined man. Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
																																																																																										  completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars. But
																																																																																										  this august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes,
																																																																																										  but that abounding dignity which has no robed investiture. Thou shalt
																																																																																										  see it shining in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that
																																																																																										  democratic dignity which, on all hands, radiates without end from God;
																																																																																										  Himself! The great God absolute! The centre and circumference of all
																																																																																										  democracy! His omnipresence, our divine equality!

																																																																																										  If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and castaways, I shall
																																																																																										  hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round them tragic
																																																																																										  graces; if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased, among
																																																																																										  them all, shall at times lift hort, black
																																																																																										  little pipe was one of the regular features of his face. You would
																																																																																										  almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his
																																																																																										  nose as without his pipe. He kept a whole row of pipes there ready
																																																																																										  loaded, stuck in a rack, within easy reach of his hand; and, whenever
																																																																																										  he turned in, he smoked them all out in succession, lighting one from
																																																																																										  the other to the end of the chapter; then loading them again to be in
																																																																																										  readiness anew. For, when Stubb dressed, instead of first putting his
																																																																																										  legs into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.

																																																																																										  I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his
																																																																																										  peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air,
																																																																																										  whether ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless
																																																																																										  miseries of the numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in
																																																																																										  time of the cholera, some people go about with a camphorated
																																																																																										  handkerchief to their mouths; so, likewise, against all mortal
																																																																																										  tribulations, Stubb’s tobacco smoke might have operated as a sort of
																																																																																										  disinfecting agent.

																																																																																										  The third mate was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in Martha’s Vineyard. A
																																																																																										  short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very pugnacious concerning whales,
																																																																																										  who somehow seemed to think that the great leviathans had personally
																																																																																										  and hereditarily affronted him; and therefore it was a sort of point of
																																																																																										  honor with him, to destroy them whenever encountered. So urctic in their glittering expression—all this sufficiently
																																																																																										  proclaimed him an inheritor of the unvitiated blood of those proud
																																																																																										  warrior hunters, who, in quest of the great New England moose, had
																																																																																										  scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal forests of the main. But no longer
																																																																																										  snuffing in the trail of the wild beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now
																																																																																										  hunted in the wake of the great whales of the sea; the unerring harpoon
																																																																																										  of the son fitly replacing the infallible arrow of the sires. To look
																																																																																										  at the tawny brawn of his lithe snaky limbs, you would almost have
																																																																																										  credited the superstitions of some of the earlier Puritans, and
																																																																																										  half-believed this wild Indian to be a son of the Prince of the Powers
																																																																																										  of the Air. Tashtego was Stubb the second mate’s squire.

																																																																																										  Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic, coal-black
																																																																																										  negro-savage, with a lion-like tread—an Ahasuerus to behold. Suspended
																																																																																										  from his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called
																																																																																										  them ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to
																																																																																										  them. In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler,
																																																																																										  lying in a lonely bay on his native coast. And never having been
																																																																																										  anywhere in the world but in Africa, y. Yes, their supreme lord and
																																																																																										  dictator was there, though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to
																																																																																										  penetrate into the now sacred retreat of the cabin.

																																																																																										  Every time I ascended to the deck from my watches below, I instantly
																																																																																										  gazed aft to mark if any strange face were visible; for my first vague
																																																																																										  disquietude touching the unknown captain, now in the seclusion of the
																																																																																										  sea, became almost a perturbation. This was strangely heightened at
																																																																																										  times by the ragged Elijah’s diabolical incoherences uninvitedly
																																																																																										  recurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived
																																																																																										  of. But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was
																																																																																										  almost ready to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish
																																																																																										  prophet of the wharves. But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or
																																																																																										  uneasiness—to call it so—which I felt, yet whenever I came to look
																																																																																										  about me in the ship, it seemed against all warrantry to cherish such
																																																																																										  emotions. For though the harpooneers, with the great body of the crew,
																																																																																										  were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the
																																																																																										  tame merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made me
																																																																																										  acquainted with, still I ascribed this—and rightly ascribed it—to the
																																																																																										  fierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation
																																																																																										  in which I had so abandonedly embarked. But it was especially the
																																																																																										  aspect of the three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was
																																																																																										  most forcibly calculated to allay these colourless misgivings, and
																																																																																										  induce confidence and cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage.
																																																																																										  Three better, moNevertheless,
																																																																																										  the old sea-traditions, the immemorial credulities, popularly invested
																																																																																										  this old Manxman with preternatural powers of discernment. So that no
																																																																																										  white sailor seriously contradicted him when he said that if ever
																																																																																										  Captain Ahab should be tranquilly laid out—which might hardly come to
																																																																																										  pass, so he muttered—then, whoever should do that last office for the
																																																																																										  dead, would find a birth-mark on him from crown to sole.

																																																																																										  So powerfully did the whole grim aspect of Ahab affect me, and the
																																																																																										  livid brand which streaked it, that for the first few moments I hardly
																																																																																										  noted that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to the
																																																																																										  barbaric white leg upon which he partly stood. It had previously come
																																																																																										  to me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished
																																																																																										  bone of the sperm whale’s jaw. “Aye, he was dismasted off Japan,” said
																																																																																										  the old Gay-Head Indian once; “but like his dismasted craft, he shipped
																																																																																										  another mast without coming home for it. He has a quiver of ’em.”

																																																																																										  I was struck with the singular posture he maintained. Upon each side of
																																																																																										  the Pequod’s quarter deck, and pretty close to the mizzen shrouds,
																																																																																										  there was an auger hole, bored about half an inch or so, into the
																																																																																										  plank. His bone leg steadied in that hole; one arm elevated, and
																																																																																										  holding by a shroud; Captain Ahab stood e memory of their absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted
																																																																																										  suns! For sleeping man, ’twas hard to choose between such winsome days
																																																																																										  and such seducing nights. But all the witcheries of that unwaning
																																																																																										  weather did not merely lend new spells and potencies to the outward
																																																																																										  world. Inward they turned upon the soul, especially when the still mild
																																																																																										  hours of eve came on; then, memory shot her crystals as the clear ice
																																																																																										  most forms of noiseless twilights. And all these subtle agencies, more
																																																																																										  and more they wrought on Ahab’s texture.

																																																																																										  Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less
																																																																																										  man has to do with aught that looks like death. Among sea-commanders,
																																																																																										  the old greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the
																																																																																										  night-cloaked deck. It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he
																																																																																										  seemed so much to live in the open air, that truly speaking, his visits
																																																																																										  were more to the cabin, than from the cabin to the planks. “It feels
																																																																																										  like going down into one’s tomb,”—he would mutter to himself—“for an
																																																																																										  old captain like me to be descending this narrow scuttle, to go to my
																																																																																										  grave-dug berth.”

																																																																																										  So, almost every twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night were
																																																																																										  set, and the band on deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below;
																																																																																										  and when if a rope was to be hauled upon the fores something on his mind, as sure as there must be
																																																																																										  something on a deck when it cracks. He aint in his bed now, either,
																																																																																										  more than three hours out of the twenty-four; and he don’t sleep then.
																																																																																										  Didn’t that Dough-Boy, the steward, tell me that of a morning he always
																																																																																										  finds the old man’s hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the
																																																																																										  sheets down at the foot, and the coverlid almost tied into knots, and
																																																																																										  the pillow a sort of frightful hot, as though a baked brick had been on
																																																																																										  it? A hot old man! I guess he’s got what some folks ashore call a
																																																																																										  conscience; it’s a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say—worse nor a
																																																																																										  toothache. Well, well; I don’t know what it is, but the Lord keep me
																																																																																										  from catching it. He’s full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into the
																																																																																										  after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what’s
																																																																																										  that for, I should like to know? Who’s made appointments with him in
																																																																																										  the hold? Ain’t that queer, now? But there’s no telling, it’s the old
																																																																																										  game—Here goes for a snooze. Damn me, it’s worth a fellow’s while to be
																																																																																										  born into the world, if only to fall right asleep. And now that I think
																																																																																										  of it, that’s about the first thing babies do, and that’s a sort of
																																																																																										  queer, too. Damn me, but all things are queer, come to think of ’em.
																																																																																										  But that’s against my principles. Think not, is my eleventh
																																																																																										  commandment; and sleep when you can, is my twelfth—So here goes again.
																																																																																										  But how’s that? didn’t he call me a dog? blazes! he called me ten times
																																																																																										  a donkey, and piled a lot of jackasses on top of _that!_ He might as
																																																																																										  well have kicked me, and done with it. Maybe he _did_ kick me, and I
																																																																																										  didn’t observe it, I was so taken all aback with his brow, somehow. It
																																																																																										  flashed like a bleached brious all dreams are—through all this rage that I was in, I somehow
																																																																																										  seemed to be thinking to myself, that after all, it was not much of an
																																																																																										  insult, that kick from Ahab. ‘Why,’ thinks I, ‘what’s the row? It’s not
																																																																																										  a real leg, only a false leg.’ And there’s a mighty difference between
																																																																																										  a living thump and a dead thump. That’s what makes a blow from the
																																																																																										  hand, Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane.
																																																																																										  The living member—that makes the living insult, my little man. And
																																																																																										  thinks I to myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly
																																																																																										  toes against that cursed pyramid—so confoundedly contradictory was it
																																																																																										  all, all the while, I say, I was thinking to myself, ‘what’s his leg
																																																																																										  now, but a cane—a whalebone cane. Yes,’ thinks I, ‘it was only a
																																																																																										  playful cudgelling—in fact, only a whaleboning that he gave me—not a
																																																																																										  base kick. Besides,’ thinks I, ‘look at it once; why, the end of it—the
																																																																																										  foot part—what a small sort of end it is; whereas, if a broad footed
																																																																																										  farmer kicked me, _there’s_ a devilish broad insult. But this insult is
																																																																																										  whittled down to a point only.’ But now comes the greatest joke of the
																																																																																										  dream, Flask. While I was battering away at the pyramid, a sort of
																																																																																										  badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by the
																																																																																										  shoulders, and slews me round. ‘What are you ’bout?’ says he. Slid!
																																																																																										  man, but I was frightened.mething special in the wind. Stand by for it, Flask.
																																																																																										  Ahab has that that’s bloody on his mind. But, mum; he comes this way.”


																																																																																										  CHAPTER 32. Cetology.

																																																																																										  Already we are boldly launched upon the deep; but soon we shall be lost
																																																																																										  in its unshored, harbourless immensities. Ere that come to pass; ere
																																																																																										  the Pequod’s weedy hull rolls side by side with the barnacled hulls of
																																																																																										  the leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a matter
																																																																																										  almost indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the
																																																																																										  more special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which
																																																																																										  are to follow.

																																																																																										  It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera,
																																																																																										  that I would now fain put before you. Yet is it no easy task. The
																																																																																										  classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here
																																																																																										  essayed. Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.

																																																																																										  “No branch of Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled
																																																																																										  Cetology,” says Captain Scoresby, A.D. 1820.

																																																																																										  “It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter into the inquiry
																																																																																										  as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups and families.
																																																																																										  * * * Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal”
																																																																																										  (sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A.D. 1839.

																																																																																										  “Unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters.”
																																																																																										  “Impenetrable veil covering our knowledge of the cetacthe sperm whale, scientific or poetic,
																																																																																										  lives not complete in any literature. Far above all other hunted
																																																																																										  whales, his is an unwritten life.

																																																																																										  Now the various species of whales need some sort of popular
																																																																																										  comprehensive classification, if only an easy outline one for the
																																																																																										  present, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by subsequent
																																																																																										  laborers. As no better man advances to take this matter in hand, I
																																																																																										  hereupon offer my own poor endeavors. I promise nothing complete;
																																																																																										  because any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very
																																																																																										  reason infallibly be faulty. I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical
																																																																																										  description of the various species, or—in this place at least—to much
																																																																																										  of any description. My object here is simply to project the draught of
																																																																																										  a systematization of cetology. I am the architect, not the builder.

																																																																																										  But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary letter-sorter in the
																																																																																										  Post-Office is equal to it. To grope down into the bottom of the sea
																																																																																										  after them; to have one’s hands among the unspeakable foundations,
																																																																																										  ribs, and very pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing. What am I
																																																																																										  that I should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan! The awful
																																																																																										  tauntings in Job might well appal me. Will he (the leviathan) make a
																																																																																										  covenant with thee? Behold the hope of him is vain! But I have swam
																																																																																										  through libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do with
																																																																																										  whales with these vre that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins and
																																																																																										  Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are
																																																																																										  included by many naturalists among the whales. But as these pig-fish
																																																																																										  are a noisy, contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers,
																																																																																										  and feeding on wet hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny
																																																																																										  their credentials as whales; and have presented them with their
																																																																																										  passports to quit the Kingdom of Cetology.

																																																																																										  First: According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary
																																																																																										  BOOKS (subdivisible into CHAPTERS), and these shall comprehend them
																																																																																										  all, both small and large.

																																																																																										  I. THE FOLIO WHALE; II. the OCTAVO WHALE; III. the DUODECIMO WHALE.

																																																																																										  As the type of the FOLIO I present the _Sperm Whale_; of the OCTAVO,
																																																																																										  the _Grampus_; of the DUODECIMO, the _Porpoise_.

																																																																																										  FOLIOS. Among these I here include the following chapters:—I. The
																																																																																										  _Sperm Whale_; II. the _Right Whale_; III. the _Fin-Back Whale_; IV.
																																																																																										  the _Hump-backed Whale_; V. the _Razor Back Whale_; VI. the _Sulphur
																																																																																										  Bottom Whale_.

																																																																																										  BOOK I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER I. (_Sperm Whale_).—This whale, among the
																																																																																										  English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter
																																																																																										  whale, and the Anvil Headed whale, is the present Cachalot of the
																																																																																										  French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and the Macrocephalus of the
																																																																																										  Long Words. He is, without doubt, the largest inhabitant of the globe;
																																																																																										  the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the most majestic in
																																																																																										  aspect; and  grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single
																																																																																										  determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction. It is by
																																																																																										  endless subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that
																																																																																										  some departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate.
																																																																																										  The right whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with
																																																																																										  reference to elucidating the sperm whale.

																																																																																										  BOOK I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER III. (_Fin-Back_).—Under this head I reckon
																																																																																										  a monster which, by the various names of Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and
																																																																																										  Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is commonly the whale
																																																																																										  whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing the
																																																																																										  Atlantic, in the New York packet-tracks. In the length he attains, and
																																																																																										  in his baleen, the Fin-back resembles the right whale, but is of a less
																																																																																										  portly girth, and a lighter colour, approaching to olive. His great
																																																																																										  lips present a cable-like aspect, formed by the intertwisting, slanting
																																																																																										  folds of large wrinkles. His grand distinguishing feature, the fin,
																																																																																										  from which he derives his name, is often a conspicuous object. This fin
																																																																																										  is some three or four feet long, growing vertically from the hinder
																																																																																										  part of the back, of an angular shape, and with a very sharp pointed
																																																																																										  end. Even if not the slightest other part of the creature be visible,
																																																																																										  this isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from the
																																																																																										  surface. When the sea is modatomy—there, at least, we shall be able to hit the
																																																																																										  right classification. Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the
																																																																																										  Greenland whale’s anatomy more striking than his baleen? Yet we have
																																																																																										  seen that by his baleen it is impossible correctly to classify the
																																																																																										  Greenland whale. And if you descend into the bowels of the various
																																																																																										  leviathans, why there you will not find distinctions a fiftieth part as
																																																																																										  available to the systematizer as those external ones already
																																																																																										  enumerated. What then remains? nothing but to take hold of the whales
																																																																																										  bodily, in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them that way.
																																																																																										  And this is the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the only
																																																																																										  one that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable. To proceed.

																																																																																										  BOOK I. (_Folio_) CHAPTER IV. (_Hump Back_).—This whale is often seen
																																																																																										  on the northern American coast. He has been frequently captured there,
																																																																																										  and towed into harbor. He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or
																																																																																										  you might call him the Elephant and Castle whale. At any rate, the
																																																																																										  popular name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him, since the
																																																																																										  sperm whale also has a hump though a smaller one. His oil is not very
																																																																																										  valuable. He has baleen. He is the most gamesome and light-hearted of
																																																																																										  all the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any
																																																																																										  other of them.

																																																																																										  BOOK I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER V. (_Razor Back_).—Of this is whale
																																																																																										  averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length. He is found in almost
																																																																																										  all latitudes. He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal hooked fin
																																																																																										  in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose. When not more
																																																																																										  profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the
																																																																																										  Hyena whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic
																																																																																										  employment—as some frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, and
																																																																																										  quite alone by themselves, burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax.
																																																																																										  Though their blubber is very thin, some of these whales will yield you
																																																																																										  upwards of thirty gallons of oil.

																																																																																										  BOOK II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER III. (_Narwhale_), that is, _Nostril
																																																																																										  whale_.—Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose
																																																																																										  from his peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose. The
																																																																																										  creature is some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five
																																																																																										  feet, though some exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet. Strictly
																																																																																										  speaking, this horn is but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw
																																																																																										  in a line a little depressed from the horizontal. But it is only found
																																																																																										  on the sinister side, which has an ill effect, giving its owner
																																																																																										  something analogous to the aspect o. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER V. (_Thrasher_).—This gentleman is famous
																																																																																										  for his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes. He
																																																																																										  mounts the Folio whale’s back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
																																																																																										  flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar
																																																																																										  process. Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer. Both
																																																																																										  are outlaws, even in the lawless seas.

																																																																																										   Thus ends BOOK II. (_Octavo_), and begins BOOK III. (_Duodecimo_).

																																																																																										   DUODECIMOES.—These include the smaller whales. I. The Huzza Porpoise.
																																																																																										   II. The Algerine Porpoise. III. The Mealy-mouthed Porpoise.

																																																																																										   To those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it may
																																																																																										   possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five
																																																																																										   feet should be marshalled among WHALES—a word, which, in the popular
																																																																																										   sense, always conveys an idea of hugeness. But the creatures set down
																																																																																										   above as Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my
																																																																																										   definition of what a whale is—_i.e._ a spouting fish, with a horizontal
																																																																																										   tail.

																																																																																										   BOOK III. (_Duodecimo_), CHAPTER 1. (_Huzza Porpoise_).—This is the
																																																																																										   common porpoise found almost all over the globe. The name is of my own
																																																																																										   bestowal; for there are more than one sort of porpoises, and something
																																																																																										   must be done to distinguish them. I call him thus, because he always
																																																																																										   swims in hilarious shoals, which upon the broad sea keep tossing
																																																																																										   themselves tby their
																																																																																										   fore-castle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to
																																																																																										   future investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun. If
																																																																																										   any of the following whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then
																																																																																										   he can readily be incorporated into this System, according to his
																																																																																										   Folio, Octavo, or Duodecimo magnitude:—The Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk
																																																																																										   Whale; the Pudding-Headed Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the
																																																																																										   Cannon Whale; the Scragg Whale; the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale;
																																																																																										   the Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale; the Blue Whale; etc. From Icelandic,
																																																																																										   Dutch, and old English authorities, there might be quoted other lists
																																																																																										   of uncertain whales, blessed with all manner of uncouth names. But I
																																																																																										   omit them as altogether obsolete; and can hardly help suspecting them
																																																																																										   for mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but signifying nothing.

																																																																																										   Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system would not be
																																																																																										   here, and at once, perfected. You cannot but plainly see that I have
																																																																																										   kept my word. But I now leave my cetological System standing thus
																																																																																										   unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the
																																																																																										   crane still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower. For small
																																																																																										   erections may be finished by their first architects; grand ones, true
																																																																																										   ones, ever leave the copestone to posterity. God keep me from ever
																																																																																										   completing anything. This whole book is but a draught—nay, but the
																																																																																										   draught of a draught. Oh, Time, Strength, Cash, and Patience!


																																																																																										   CHAPTER 33. The Specksnyder.

																																																																																										   Concerning the o discipline than in merchantmen generally; yet, never mind
																																																																																										   how much like an old Mesopotamian family these whalemen may, in some
																																																																																										   primitive instances, live together; for all that, the punctilious
																																																																																										   externals, at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially relaxed,
																																																																																										   and in no instance done away. Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships in
																																																																																										   which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated
																																																																																										   grandeur not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost as
																																																																																										   much outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the
																																																																																										   shabbiest of pilot-cloth.

																																																																																										   And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the least
																																																																																										   given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage
																																																																																										   he ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though he
																																																																																										   required no man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon the
																																																																																										   quarter-deck; and though there were times when, owing to peculiar
																																																																																										   circumstances connected with events hereafter to be detailed, he
																																																																																										   addressed them in unusual terms, whether of condescension or _in
																																																																																										   terrorem_, or otherwise; yet even Captain Ahab was by no means
																																																																																										   unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.

																																																																																										   Nor, perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind
																																																																																										   those forms and usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself;
																																																																																										   incidentally making use of them for other and more private ends than
																																																																																										   they were legitimately intended to subserve. That certain sultanism of
																																																																																										   his brain, which had otherwise in a good degree remained unmanifested;
																																																																																										   through those forms that same sultanism became incarnate in an
																																																																																										   ind, after a grave peep into the binnacle, says, with some touch of
																																																																																										   pleasantness, “Dinner, Mr. Stubb,” and descends the scuttle. The second
																																																																																										   Emir lounges about the rigging awhile, and then slightly shaking the
																																																																																										   main brace, to see whether it will be all right with that important
																																																																																										   rope, he likewise takes up the old burden, and with a rapid “Dinner,
																																																																																										   Mr. Flask,” follows after his predecessors.

																																																																																										   But the third Emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck,
																																																																																										   seems to feel relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all
																																																																																										   sorts of knowing winks in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his
																																																																																										   shoes, he strikes into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right
																																																																																										   over the Grand Turk’s head; and then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching
																																																																																										   his cap up into the mizentop for a shelf, he goes down rollicking so
																																																																																										   far at least as he remains visible from the deck, reversing all other
																																																																																										   processions, by bringing up the rear with music. But ere stepping into
																																																																																										   the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face altogether, and,
																																																																																										   then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab’s presence,
																																																																																										   in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.

																																																																																										   It is not the least among the strange things bred by the intense
																																																																																										   artificialness of sea-usages, that while in the open air of the deck
																																																																																										   some officers will, upon provocation, bear themselves boldly and
																																																																																										   defyingly enough towards their commander; yet, ten to one, let those
																																																																																										   very officers the next moment go down to their customary dinner in that
																																																																																										   same commander’s cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not to say
																																																																																										   deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of the
																																																																																										   table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical. Whee. Had he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never
																																																																																										   more would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world;
																																																																																										   nevertheless, strange to say, Ahab never forbade him. And had Flask
																																																																																										   helped himself, the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it.
																																																																																										   Least of all, did Flask presume to help himself to butter. Whether he
																																																																																										   thought the owners of the ship denied it to him, on account of its
																																																																																										   clotting his clear, sunny complexion; or whether he deemed that, on so
																																																																																										   long a voyage in such marketless waters, butter was at a premium, and
																																																																																										   therefore was not for him, a subaltern; however it was, Flask, alas!
																																																																																										   was a butterless man!

																																																																																										   Another thing. Flask was the last person down at the dinner, and Flask
																																																																																										   is the first man up. Consider! For hereby Flask’s dinner was badly
																																																																																										   jammed in point of time. Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him;
																																																																																										   and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear. If Stubb
																																																																																										   even, who is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small
																																																																																										   appetite, and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask
																																																																																										   must bestir himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that
																																																																																										   day; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to thethings they demanded, he
																																																																																										   would escape from their clutches into his little pantry adjoining, and
																																																																																										   fearfully peep out at them through the blinds of its door, till all was
																																																																																										   over.

																																																																																										   It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against Tashtego, opposing
																																																																																										   his filed teeth to the Indian’s: crosswise to them, Daggoo seated on
																																																																																										   the floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed head to the
																																																																																										   low carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the low
																																																																																										   cabin framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in
																																																																																										   a ship. But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious,
																																																																																										   not to say dainty. It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively
																																																																																										   small mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so
																																																																																										   broad, baronial, and superb a person. But, doubtless, this noble savage
																																																																																										   fed strong and drank deep of the abounding element of air; and through
																																																																																										   his dilated nostrils snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds. Not by
																																																																																										   beef or by bread, are giants made or nourished. But Queequeg, he had a
																																																																																										   mortal, barbaric smack of the lip in eating—an ugly sound enough—so
																																																																																										   much so, that the trembling Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether any
																																																																																										   marks of teeth lurked in his own lean arms. And when he would hear
																																																																																										   Tashtego singing out for him to produce himself, that his bones might
																																																																																										   be picked, the simple-witted steward all but shattered the crockery
																																																																																										   hanging round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the palsy. Nor
																																																																																										   did the whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets, for
																																																																																										   their lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner,
																																																																																										   they would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound did
																																																																																										   not at all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy. How could he forget
																																																																																										   that in his Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been
																																																																																										   guilty of some murderous, convivial indiscretions. Alas! Dough-Boy!
																																																																																										   hard fares the white waiter who waits upon cannibals. Not a napkin
																																																																																										   should he carry on his arm, but a buckler. In good time, though, to his
																																																																																										   great delight, tvial
																																																																																										   even—then, her mast-heads are kept manned to the last; and not till her
																																																																																										   skysail-poles sail in among the spires of the port, does she altogether
																																																																																										   relinquish the hope of capturing one whale more.

																																																																																										   Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a
																																																																																										   very ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate
																																																																																										   here. I take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old
																																																																																										   Egyptians; because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them.
																																																																																										   For though their progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by
																																																																																										   their tower, have intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia,
																																																																																										   or Africa either; yet (ere the final truck was put to it) as that great
																																																																																										   stone mast of theirs may be said to have gone by the board, in the
																																																																																										   dread gale of God’s wrath; therefore, we cannot give these Babel
																																																																																										   builders priority over the Egyptians. And that the Egyptians were a
																																																																																										   nation of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the general
																																																																																										   belief among archæologists, that the first pyramids were founded for
																																																																																										   astronomical purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar
																																																																																										   stair-like formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with
																																																																																										   prodigious long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were
																																																																																										   wont to mount to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the
																																																																																										   look-outs of a modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing
																																																																																										   ixceedingly
																																																																																										   pleasant the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is
																																																																																										   delightful. There you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks,
																																																																																										   striding along the deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while
																																																																																										   beneath you and between your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters
																																																																																										   of the sea, even as ships once sailed between the boots of the famous
																																																																																										   Colossus at old Rhodes. There you stand, lost in the infinite series of
																																																																																										   the sea, with nothing ruffled but the waves. The tranced ship
																																																																																										   indolently rolls; the drowsy trade winds blow; everything resolves you
																																																																																										   into languor. For the most part, in this tropic whaling life, a sublime
																																																																																										   uneventfulness invests you; you hear no news; read no gazettes; extras
																																																																																										   with startling accounts of commonplaces never delude you into
																																																																																										   unnecessary excitements; you hear of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt
																																																																																										   securities; fall of stocks; are never troubled with the thought of what
																																																																																										   you shall have for dinner—for all your meals for three years and more
																																																																																										   are snugly stowed in casks, and your bill of fare is immutable.

																																																																																										   In one of those southern whalesmen, on a long three or four years’
																																																																																										   voyage, as often happens, the sum of the various hours you spend at the
																																																																																										   mast-head would amount to several entire months. And it is much to be
																																																																																										   deplored that the place to which you devote so considerable a portion
																																																																																										   of the whole term of your natural life, should be so sadly  In front is a leather
																																																																																										   rack, in which to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and
																																																																																										   other nautical conveniences. When Captain Sleet in person stood his
																																																																																										   mast-head in this crow’s-nest of his, he tells us that he always had a
																																																																																										   rifle with him (also fixed in the rack), together with a powder flask
																																																																																										   and shot, for the purpose of popping off the stray narwhales, or
																																																																																										   vagrant sea unicorns infesting those waters; for you cannot
																																																																																										   successfully shoot at them from the deck owing to the resistance of the
																																																																																										   water, but to shoot down upon them is a very different thing. Now, it
																																																																																										   was plainly a labor of love for Captain Sleet to describe, as he does,
																																																																																										   all the little detailed conveniences of his crow’s-nest; but though he
																																																																																										   so enlarges upon many of these, and though he treats us to a very
																																																																																										   scientific account of his experiments in this crow’s-nest, with a small
																																																																																										   compass he kept there for the purpose of counteracting the errors
																																																																																										   resulting from what is called the “local attraction” of all binnacle
																																																																																										   magnets; an error ascribable to the horizontal vicinity of the iron in
																																																																																										   the ship’s planks, and in the Glacier’s case, perhaps, to there having
																																																																																										   been so many broken-down blacksmiths among hernot feeling sufficient
																																																																																										   “interest” in the voyage; half-hinting that they are so hopelessly lost
																																																																																										   to all honorable ambition, as that in their secret souls they would
																																																																																										   rather not see whales than otherwise. But all in vain; those young
																																																																																										   Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are
																																																																																										   short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve? They have
																																																																																										   left their opera-glasses at home.

																																																																																										   “Why, thou monkey,” said a harpooneer to one of these lads, “we’ve been
																																																																																										   cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not raised a whale
																																																																																										   yet. Whales are scarce as hen’s teeth whenever thou art up here.”
																																																																																										   Perhaps they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in
																																																																																										   the far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of
																																																																																										   vacant, unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending
																																																																																										   cadence of waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity;
																																																																																										   takes the mystic ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep,
																																																																																										   blue, bottomless soul, pervading mankind and nature; and every strange,
																																																																																										   half-seen, gliding, beautiful thing that eludes him; every
																																																																																										   dimly-discovered, uprising fin of some undiscernible form, seems to him
																																																																																										   the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that only people the soul by
																																																																																										   continually flitting through it. In this enchanted mood, thy spirit
																																																																																										   ebbs away to whence it came; becomes diffused through timting his eyes among the crew,
																																																																																										   started from his standpoint; and as though not a soul were nigh him
																																																																																										   resumed his heavy turns upon the deck. With bent head and half-slouched
																																																																																										   hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering among
																																																																																										   the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have
																																																																																										   summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat.
																																																																																										   But this did not last long. Vehemently pausing, he cried:—

																																																																																										   “What do ye do when ye see a whale, men?”

																																																																																										   “Sing out for him!” was the impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbed
																																																																																										   voices.

																																																																																										   “Good!” cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the
																																																																																										   hearty animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically
																																																																																										   thrown them.

																																																																																										   “And what do ye next, men?”

																																																																																										   “Lower away, and after him!”

																																																																																										   “And what tune is it ye pull to, men?”

																																																																																										   “A dead whale or a stove boat!”

																																																																																										   More and more strangely and fiercely glad and approving, grew the
																																																																																										   countenance of the old man at every shout; while the mariners began to
																																																																																										   gaze curiously at each other, as if marvelling how it was that they
																																																																																										   themselves became so excited at such seemingly purposeless questions.

																																																																																										   But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab, now half-revolving in his
																																																																																										   piptain Ahab,” said Starbuck, who, with Stubb and Flask, had thus far
																																																																																										   been eyeing his superior with increasing surprise, but at last seemed
																																																																																										   struck with a thought which somewhat explained all the wonder. “Captain
																																																																																										   Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick—but it was not Moby Dick that took off
																																																																																										   thy leg?”

																																																																																										   “Who told thee that?” cried Ahab; then pausing, “Aye, Starbuck; aye, my
																																																																																										   hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted me; Moby Dick that
																																																																																										   brought me to this dead stump I stand on now. Aye, aye,” he shouted
																																																																																										   with a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken moose;
																																																																																										   “Aye, aye! it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a poor
																																																																																										   pegging lubber of me for ever and a day!” Then tossing both arms, with
																																																																																										   measureless imprecations he shouted out: “Aye, aye! and I’ll chase him
																																																																																										   round Good Hope, and round the Horn, and round the Norway Maelstrom,
																																																																																										   and round perdition’s flames before I give him up. And this is what ye
																																																																																										   have shipped for, men! to chase that white whale on both sides of land,
																																																																																										   and over all sides of earth, till he spouts black blood and rolls fin
																																																																																										   out. What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now? I think ye do
																																																																																										   look brave.”

																																																																																										   “Aye, aye!” shouted the harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the
																																																																																										   excited old man: “A sharp eye for the white whale; a sharp lance for
																																																																																										   Moby Dick!”

																																																																																										   “Gohat live; and seek, and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel!
																																																																																										   The crew, man, the crew! Are they not one and all with Ahab, in this
																																																																																										   matter of the whale? See Stubb! he laughs! See yonder Chilian! he
																																																																																										   snorts to think of it. Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one
																																																																																										   tost sapling cannot, Starbuck! And what is it? Reckon it. ’Tis but to
																																																																																										   help strike a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck. What is it more? From
																																																																																										   this one poor hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely
																																																																																										   he will not hang back, when every foremast-hand has clutched a
																																																																																										   whetstone? Ah! constrainings seize thee; I see! the billow lifts thee!
																																																																																										   Speak, but speak!—Aye, aye! thy silence, then, _that_ voices thee.
																																																																																										   (_Aside_) Something shot from my dilated nostrils, he has inhaled it in
																																																																																										   his lungs. Starbuck now is mine; cannot oppose me now, without
																																																																																										   rebellion.”

																																																																																										   “God keep me!—keep us all!” murmured Starbuck, lowly.

																																																																																										   But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the mate, Ahab
																																																																																										   did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh from the
																																																																																										   hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of the winds in the cordage; nor
																																																																																										   yet the hollow flap of the sails against the masts, as for a moment
																																																																																										   their hearts sank in. For again Starbuck’s downcast eyes lighted up
																																																																																										   with the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died away; the
																																																																																										   winds blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as
																																																																																										   before. Ah, ye admonitions and warnings! why stay ye not when ye come?
																																																																																										   But rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows! Yet not so
																																																																																										   much predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things
																																																																																										   within. For with little external to constrain us, the innermost
																																																																																										   necessities in our being, these still drive us on.

																																																																																										   “The measure! the measure!” cried Ahab.

																																																																																										   Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to thhad perhaps expired from out me. Perchance, too, it would have dropped
																																																																																										   ye dead. Perchance ye need it not. Down lances! And now, ye mates, I do
																																																																																										   appoint ye three cupbearers to my three pagan kinsmen there—yon three
																																																																																										   most honorable gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers. Disdain
																																																																																										   the task? What, when the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using
																																																																																										   his tiara for ewer? Oh, my sweet cardinals! your own condescension,
																																																																																										   _that_ shall bend ye to it. I do not order ye; ye will it. Cut your
																																																																																										   seizings and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!”

																																																																																										   Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the
																																																																																										   detached iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs
																																																																																										   up, before him.

																																																																																										   “Stab me not with that keen steel! Cant them; cant them over! know ye
																																																																																										   not the goblet end? Turn up the socket! So, so; now, ye cup-bearers,
																																																																																										   advance. The irons! take them; hold them while I fill!” Forthwith,
																																																																																										   slowly going from one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon
																																																																																										   sockets with the fiery waters from the pewter.

																																																																																										   “Now, three to three, ye stand. Commend the murderous chalices! Bestow
																																																																																										   them, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble league. Ha!
																																																																																										   Starbuck! but the deed ye_ have run and hidden. Come forth from behind your cotton bags!
																																																																																										   I have no long gun to reach ye. Come, Ahab’s compliments to ye; come
																																																																																										   and see if ye can swerve me. Swerve me? ye cannot swerve me, else ye
																																																																																										   swerve yourselves! man has ye there. Swerve me? The path to my fixed
																																																																																										   purpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run.
																																																																																										   Over unsounded gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under
																																																																																										   torrents’ beds, unerringly I rush! Naught’s an obstacle, naught’s an
																																																																																										   angle to the iron way!


																																																																																										   CHAPTER 38. Dusk.

																																																																																										   _By the Mainmast; Starbuck leaning against it_.

																																																																																										   My soul is more than matched; she’s overmanned; and by a madman!
																																																																																										   Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field! But
																																																																																										   he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me! I think I
																																																																																										   see his impious end; but feel that I must help him to it. Will I, nill
																																																																																										   I, the ineffable thing has tied me to him; tows me with a cable I have
																																																																																										   no knife to cut. Horrible old man! Who’s over him, he cries;—aye, he
																																																																																										   would be a democrat to all above; look, how he lords it over all below!
																																																																																										   Oh! I plainly see my miserable office,—to obey, rebelling; and worse
																																																																																										   yet, to hate with touch of pity! For in his eyes I read some lurid woe
																																																																																										   would shrivel me up, had I it. Yet is there hope. Time and tide flow
																																																																																										   wide. The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the
																																																																																										   small gold-fish  job—coming.


																																																																																										   CHAPTER 40. Midnight, Forecastle.

																																																																																										   HARPOONEERS AND SAILORS.

																																																																																										   (_Foresail rises and discovers the watch standing, lounging, leaning,
																																																																																										   and lying in various attitudes, all singing in chorus_.)


																																																																																										     Farewell and adieu to you, Spanish ladies! Farewell and adieu to you,
																																																																																										       ladies of Spain! Our captain’s commanded.—



																																																																																										       1ST NANTUCKET SAILOR. Oh, boys, don’t be sentimental; it’s bad for the
																																																																																										       digestion! Take a tonic, follow me!

																																																																																										       (_Sings, and all follow._)


																																																																																										        Our captain stood upon the deck, A spy-glass in his hand, A viewing of
																																																																																											 those gallant whales That blew at every strand. Oh, your tubs in your
																																																																																											  boats, my boys, And by your braces stand, And we’ll have one of those
																																																																																											   fine whales, Hand, boys, over hand! So, be cheery, my lads! may your
																																																																																											    hearts never fail! While the bold harpooner is striking the whale!



																																																																																											    MATE’S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Eight bells there, forward!

																																																																																											    2ND NANTUCKET SAILOR. Avast the chorus! Eight bells there! d’ye hear,
																																																																																											    bell-boy? Strike the bell eight, thou Pip! thou blackling! and let me
																																																																																											    call the watch. I’ve the sort of mouth for that—the hogshead mouth. So,
																																																																																											    so, (_thrusts his head down the scuttle_,) Star-bo-l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!
																																																																																											    Eight bells there below! Tumble up!

																																																																																											    DUTCH SAILOR. Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that. I mark
																																																																																											    this in our old Mogul’s wine; it’s quite as deadening to some asg after
																																																																																											    whales in a calm—give us a whiff, Tash.

																																																																																											    (_They cease dancing, and gather in clusters. Meantime the sky
																																																																																											    darkens—the wind rises_.)

																																																																																											    LASCAR SAILOR. By Brahma! boys, it’ll be douse sail soon. The sky-born,
																																																																																											    high-tide Ganges turned to wind! Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva!

																																																																																											    MALTESE SAILOR. (_Reclining and shaking his cap_.) It’s the waves—the
																																																																																											    snow’s caps turn to jig it now. They’ll shake their tassels soon. Now
																																																																																											    would all the waves were women, then I’d go drown, and chassee with
																																																																																											    them evermore! There’s naught so sweet on earth—heaven may not match
																																																																																											    it!—as those swift glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the
																																																																																											    over-arboring arms hide such ripe, bursting grapes.

																																																																																											    SICILIAN SAILOR. (_Reclining_.) Tell me not of it! Hark ye, lad—fleet
																																																																																											    interlacings of the limbs—lithe swayings—coyings—flutterings! lip!
																																																																																											    heart! hip! all graze: unceasing touch and go! not taste, observe ye,
																																																																																											    else come satiety. Eh, Pagan? (_Nudging_.)

																																																																																											    TAHITAN SAILOR. (_Reclining on a mat_.) Hail, holy nakedness of our
																																																																																											    dancing girls!—the Heeva-Heeva! Ah! low veiled, high palmed Tahiti! I
																																																																																											    still rest me on thy mat, but the soft soil has slid! I saw thee woven
																																																																																											    in the wood, my mat! green the first day I brought ye thence; now worn
																																																																																											    and wilted quite. Ah me!—not thou nor I can bear the change! How then,
																																																																																											    if so be transplanted to yon sky? es? Lord help such jollies!
																																																																																											    Crish, crash! there goes the jib-stay! Blang-whang! God! Duck lower,
																																																																																											    Pip, here comes the royal yard! It’s worse than being in the whirled
																																																																																											    woods, the last day of the year! Who’d go climbing after chestnuts now?
																																																																																											    But there they go, all cursing, and here I don’t. Fine prospects to
																																																																																											    ’em; they’re on the road to heaven. Hold on hard! Jimmini, what a
																																																																																											    squall! But those chaps there are worse yet—they are your white
																																																																																											    squalls, they. White squalls? white whale, shirr! shirr! Here have I
																																																																																											    heard all their chat just now, and the white whale—shirr! shirr!—but
																																																																																											    spoken of once! and only this evening—it makes me jingle all over like
																																																																																											    my tambourine—that anaconda of an old man swore ’em in to hunt him! Oh,
																																																																																											    thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness, have mercy on
																																																																																											    this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that have no
																																																																																											    bowels to feel fear!


																																																																																											    CHAPTER 41. Moby Dick.

																																																																																											    I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts had gone up with the rest;
																																																																																											    my oath had been welded with theirs; and stronger I shouted, and more
																																																																																											    did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the dread in my soul. A
																																																																																											    wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab’s quenchless feud
																																																																																											    seemed mine. With greedyw out of the very body of all surprising
																																																																																											    terrible events,—as the smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in
																																																																																											    maritime life, far more than in that of terra firma, wild rumors
																																																																																											    abound, wherever there is any adequate reality for them to cling to.
																																																																																											    And as the sea surpasses the land in this matter, so the whale fishery
																																																																																											    surpasses every other sort of maritime life, in the wonderfulness and
																																																																																											    fearfulness of the rumors which sometimes circulate there. For not only
																																																																																											    are whalemen as a body unexempt from that ignorance and
																																																																																											    superstitiousness hereditary to all sailors; but of all sailors, they
																																																																																											    are by all odds the most directly brought into contact with whatever is
																																																																																											    appallingly astonishing in the sea; face to face they not only eye its
																																																																																											    greatest marvels, but, hand to jaw, give battle to them. Alone, in such
																																																																																											    remotest waters, that though you sailed a thousand miles, and passed a
																																																																																											    thousand shores, you would not come to any chiseled hearth-stone, or
																																																																																											    aught hospitable beneath that part of the sun; in such latitudes and
																																																																																											    longitudes, pursuing too such a calling as he does, the whaleman is
																																																																																											    wrapped by influences all tending to make his fancy pregnant with many
																																																																																											    a mighty birth.

																																																																																											    No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere transit over
																																																																																											    the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale did in
																																																																																											    the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints, and
																																																																																											    half-formed fœtal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which
																																																																																											    eventually invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything
																																																																																											    that visibly appears. So that in many cases such a panic didnd daring
																																																																																											    warfare; such men protesting that although other leviathans might be
																																																																																											    hopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at such an apparition
																																																																																											    as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man. That to attempt it, would be
																																																																																											    inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity. On this head, there are
																																																																																											    some remarkable documents that may be consulted.

																																																																																											    Nevertheless, some there were, who even in the face of these things
																																																																																											    were ready to give chase to Moby Dick; and a still greater number who,
																																																																																											    chancing only to hear of him distantly and vaguely, without the
																																																																																											    specific details of any certain calamity, and without superstitious
																																																																																											    accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee from the battle if
																																																																																											    offered.

																																																																																											    One of the wild suggestions referred to, as at last coming to be linked
																																																																																											    with the White Whale in the minds of the superstitiously inclined, was
																																																																																											    the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was ubiquitous; that he had
																																																																																											    actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and the same
																																																																																											    instant of time.

																																																																																											    Nor, credulous as such minds must have been, was this conceit
																																																																																											    altogether without some faint show of superstitious probability. For as
																																																																																											    the secrets of the currents in the seas have never yet been divulged,
																																																																																											    even to the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the Sperm
																																																																																											    Whale when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to
																																																																																											    his pursuers; and from time to time have originated the mostified by
																																																																																											    his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon through a dark blue
																																																																																											    sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all spangled with golden
																																																																																											    gleamings.

																																																																																											    Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his remarkable hue, nor yet his
																																																																																											    deformed lower jaw, that so much invested the whale with natural
																																																																																											    terror, as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which, according to
																																																																																											    specific accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his assaults.
																																																																																											    More than all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than
																																																																																											    perhaps aught else. For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers,
																																																																																											    with every apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known
																																																																																											    to turn round suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their
																																																																																											    boats to splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.

																																																																																											    Already several fatalities had attended his chase. But though similar
																																																																																											    disasters, however little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual in
																																																																																											    the fishery; yet, in most instances, such seemed the White Whale’s
																																																																																											    infernal aforethought of ferocity, that every dismembering or death
																																																																																											    that he caused, was not wholly regarded as having been inflicted by an
																																																																																											    unintelligent agent.

																																																																																											    Judge, then, to what pitches of inflamed, distracted fury the minds of
																																																																																											    his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of chewed
																																																																																											    boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the
																																																																																											    white curds oterfusing, made him mad. That it was only then, on
																																																																																											    the homeward voyage, after the encounter, that the final monomania
																																																																																											    seized him, seems all but certain from the fact that, at intervals
																																																																																											    during the passage, he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed of a
																																																																																											    leg, yet such vital strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was
																																																																																											    moreover intensified by his delirium, that his mates were forced to
																																																																																											    lace him fast, even there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock. In a
																																																																																											    strait-jacket, he swung to the mad rockings of the gales. And, when
																																																																																											    running into more sufferable latitudes, the ship, with mild stun’sails
																																																																																											    spread, floated across the tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances,
																																																																																											    the old man’s delirium seemed left behind him with the Cape Horn
																																																																																											    swells, and he came forth from his dark den into the blessed light and
																																																																																											    air; even then, when he bore that firm, collected front, however pale,
																																																																																											    and issued his calm orders once again; and his mates thanked God the
																																																																																											    direful madness was now gone; even then, Ahab, in his hidden self,
																																																																																											    raved on. Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most feline thing.
																																																																																											    When you think it fled, it may have but become transfigured into some
																																																																																											    still subtler form. Ahab’s full lunacy subsided not, but deepeningly
																																																																																											    contracted; like the unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman flows
																																																																																											    narrowly, but unfathomably through the Highland gorge. But, as in his
																																																																																											    narrow-flh the infixed, unrelenting fangs of some incurable
																																																																																											    idea; such an one, could he be found, would seem the very man to dart
																																																																																											    his iron and lift his lance against the most appalling of all brutes.
																																																																																											    Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally incapacitated for that,
																																																																																											    yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to cheer and howl on
																																																																																											    his underlings to the attack. But be all this as it may, certain it is,
																																																																																											    that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in
																																																																																											    him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one
																																																																																											    only and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale. Had any one
																																																																																											    of his old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking
																																																																																											    in him then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have
																																																																																											    wrenched the ship from such a fiendish man! They were bent on
																																																																																											    profitable cruises, the profit to be counted down in dollars from the
																																																																																											    mint. He was intent on an audacious, immitigable, and supernatural
																																																																																											    revenge.

																																																																																											    Here, then, was this grey-headed, ungodly old man, chasing with curses
																																																																																											    a Job’s whale round the world, at the head of a crew, too, chiefly made
																																																																																											    up of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and cannibals—morally enfeebled
																																																																																											    also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right-mindedness in
																																																																																											    Starbuck, the invulnerable jollity of indifference and recklessness in
																																																																																											    Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask. Such a crew,  day; and
																																																																																											    though in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this same hue is
																																																																																											    made the emblem of many touching, noble things—the innocence of brides,
																																																																																											    the benignity of age; though among the Red Men of America the giving of
																																																																																											    the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honor; though in
																																																																																											    many climes, whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of
																																																																																											    the Judge, and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn
																																																																																											    by milk-white steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most
																																																																																											    august religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness
																																																																																											    and power; by the Persian fire worshippers, the white forked flame
																																																																																											    being held the holiest on the altar; and in the Greek mythologies,
																																																																																											    Great Jove himself being made incarnate in a snow-white bull; and
																																																																																											    though to the noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice of the sacred
																																																																																											    White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology, that
																																																																																											    spotless, faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send
																																																																																											    to the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and
																																																																																											    though directly from the Latin word for white, all Christian priests
																																																																																											    derive the name of one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic,
																																																																																											    worn beneath the cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish
																																																																																											    faith, white is specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of
																																																																																											    our Lord; though in the Vision of St. John, white robes are given to
																																																																																											    the redeemed, and the four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white
																																																																																											    before the great white throne, and the Holy One that sitteth there
																																																																																											    white like wool; yet for all these accumulated associations, with
																																																																																											    whatever is sweet, and hondeck; and there, dashed upon the
																																																																																											    main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and
																																																																																											    with a hooked, Roman bill sublime. At intervals, it arched forth its
																																																																																											    vast archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark. Wondrous
																																																																																											    flutterings and throbbings shook it. Though bodily unharmed, it uttered
																																																																																											    cries, as some king’s ghost in supernatural distress. Through its
																																																																																											    inexpressible, strange eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took
																																																																																											    hold of God. As Abraham before the angels, I bowed myself; the white
																																																																																											    thing was so white, its wings so wide, and in those for ever exiled
																																																																																											    waters, I had lost the miserable warping memories of traditions and of
																																																																																											    towns. Long I gazed at that prodigy of plumage. I cannot tell, can only
																																																																																											    hint, the things that darted through me then. But at last I awoke; and
																																																																																											    turning, asked a sailor what bird was this. A goney, he replied. Goney!
																																																																																											    never had heard that name before; is it conceivable that this glorious
																																																																																											    thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! never! But some time after, I
																																																																																											    learned that goney was some seaman’s name for albatross. So that by no
																																																																																											    possibility could Coleridge’s wild Rhyme have had aught to do with
																																																																																											    those mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw that bird upon
																																																																																											    our deck. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to
																																																																																											    be an albatross. Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly burnish a
																																																																																											    little brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.

																																																																																											    I assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird
																																																																																											    chiefly lurks the sehed by his own kith and kin! It is
																																																																																											    that whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name he
																																																																																											    bears. The Albino is as well made as other men—has no substantive
																																																																																											    deformity—and yet this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him
																																																																																											    more strangely hideous than the ugliest abortion. Why should this be
																																																																																											    so?

																																																																																											    Nor, in quite other aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but not
																																																																																											    the less malicious agencies, fail to enlist among her forces this
																																																																																											    crowning attribute of the terrible. From its snowy aspect, the
																																																																																											    gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas has been denominated the White
																																																																																											    Squall. Nor, in some historic instances, has the art of human malice
																																																																																											    omitted so potent an auxiliary. How wildly it heightens the effect of
																																																																																											    that passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy symbol of their
																																																																																											    faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their bailiff in the
																																																																																											    market-place!

																																																																																											    Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary experience of all
																																																																																											    mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this hue. It
																																																																																											    cannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of
																																																																																											    the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering
																																																																																											    there; as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of
																																																																																											    consternation in the other world, as of mortal trepidation here. And
																																																																																											    from that pallor of the dead, we borrow the expressive hue of the
																																																																																											    shroud in which we wrap them. Nor even in our superstitions do we fail
																																																																																											    to throw the same snowy mantle round our phantoms; all ghosts rising in
																																																																																											    a milk-white fog—Yea, while these terrors seize us, let us add, that
																																																																																											    esubstantial instance, purely addressed to the fancy, why, in
																																																																																											    reading the old fairy tales of Central Europe, does “the tall pale man”
																																																																																											    of the Hartz forests, whose changeless pallor unrustlingly glides
																																																																																											    through the green of the groves—why is this phantom more terrible than
																																																																																											    all the whooping imps of the Blocksburg?

																																																																																											    Nor is it, altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-toppling
																																																																																											    earthquakes; nor the stampedoes of her frantic seas; nor the
																																																																																											    tearlessness of arid skies that never rain; nor the sight of her wide
																																																																																											    field of leaning spires, wrenched cope-stones, and crosses all adroop
																																																																																											    (like canted yards of anchored fleets); and her suburban avenues of
																																																																																											    house-walls lying over upon each other, as a tossed pack of cards;—it
																																																																																											    is not these things alone which make tearless Lima, the strangest,
																																																																																											    saddest city thou can’st see. For Lima has taken the white veil; and
																																																																																											    there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe. Old as Pizarro,
																																																																																											    this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the cheerful
																																																																																											    greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the rigid
																																																																																											    pallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions.

																																																																																											    I know that, to the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness
																																																																																											    is not confessed to be the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of
																																																																																											    objects otherwise terrible; nor to the unimagrience of former perils; for what knows he, this New England colt,
																																																																																											    of the black bisons of distant Oregon?

																																																																																											    No: but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the instinct of the
																																																																																											    knowledge of the demonism in the world. Though thousands of miles from
																																																																																											    Oregon, still when he smells that savage musk, the rending, goring
																																																																																											    bison herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of the
																																																																																											    prairies, which this instant they may be trampling into dust.

																																																																																											    Thus, then, the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings of
																																																																																											    the festooned frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the
																																																																																											    windrowed snows of prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking
																																																																																											    of that buffalo robe to the frightened colt!

																																																																																											    Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of which the mystic
																																																																																											    sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt, somewhere
																																																																																											    those things must exist. Though in many of its aspects this visible
																																																																																											    world seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in
																																																																																											    fright.

																																																																																											    But not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and
																																																																																											    learned why it appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange
																																																																																											    and far more portentous—why, as we have seen, it is at once the most
																																																																																											    meaning symbol of spiritual things, nay, the very veil of the
																																																																																											    Christian’s Deity; and yet should be as it is, the intensifying agent
																																																																																											    in things the most appalling to mankind.

																																																																																											    Is it that by its inde is!—it sounds like two or three sleepers turning
																																																																																											    over, now!”

																																																																																											    “Caramba! have done, shipmate, will ye? It’s the three soaked biscuits
																																																																																											    ye eat for supper turning over inside of ye—nothing else. Look to the
																																																																																											    bucket!”

																																																																																											    “Say what ye will, shipmate; I’ve sharp ears.”

																																																																																											    “Aye, you are the chap, ain’t ye, that heard the hum of the old
																																																																																											    Quakeress’s knitting-needles fifty miles at sea from Nantucket; you’re
																																																																																											    the chap.”

																																																																																											    “Grin away; we’ll see what turns up. Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody
																																																																																											    down in the after-hold that has not yet been seen on deck; and I
																																																																																											    suspect our old Mogul knows something of it too. I heard Stubb tell
																																																																																											    Flask, one morning watch, that there was something of that sort in the
																																																																																											    wind.”

																																																																																											    “Tish! the bucket!”


																																																																																											    CHAPTER 44. The Chart.

																																																																																											    Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his cabin after the squall that
																																																																																											    took place on the night succeeding that wild ratification of his
																																																																																											    purpose with his crew, you would have seen him go to a locker in the
																																																																																											    transom, and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish sea
																																																																																											    charts, spread them before him on his screwed-down table. Then seating
																																																																																											    himself before it, you would have seen him intently study the various
																																																																																											    lines and shadings which there meen spent in each month in every district, and the two others to
																																																																																											      show the number of days in which whales, sperm or right, have been
																																																																																											        seen.”




																																																																																												Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to another, the
																																																																																												sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct—say, rather, secret
																																																																																												intelligence from the Deity—mostly swim in _veins_, as they are called;
																																																																																												continuing their way along a given ocean-line with such undeviating
																																																																																												exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any chart, with one
																																																																																												tithe of such marvellous precision. Though, in these cases, the
																																																																																												direction taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor’s parallel,
																																																																																												and though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own
																																																																																												unavoidable, straight wake, yet the arbitrary _vein_ in which at these
																																																																																												times he is said to swim, generally embraces some few miles in width
																																																																																												(more or less, as the vein is presumed to expand or contract); but
																																																																																												never exceeds the visual sweep from the whale-ship’s mast-heads, when
																																																																																												circumspectly gliding along this magic zone. The sum is, that at
																																																																																												particular seasons within that breadth and along that path, migrating
																																																																																												whales may with great confidence be looked for.

																																																																																												And hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate
																																																																																												feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing
																																																																																												the widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his
																																																																																												able her
																																																																																												commander to make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and
																																																																																												then running down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial
																																																																																												Pacific in time to cruise there. Therefore, he must wait for the next
																																																																																												ensuing season. Yet the premature hour of the Pequod’s sailing had,
																																																																																												perhaps, been correctly selected by Ahab, with a view to this very
																																																																																												complexion of things. Because, an interval of three hundred and
																																																																																												sixty-five days and nights was before him; an interval which, instead
																																																																																												of impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt;
																																																																																												if by chance the White Whale, spending his vacation in seas far remote
																																																																																												from his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his wrinkled brow
																																																																																												off the Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or in any
																																																																																												other waters haunted by his race. So that Monsoons, Pampas,
																																																																																												Nor’-Westers, Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoon,
																																																																																												might blow Moby Dick into the devious zig-zag world-circle of the
																																																																																												Pequod’s circumnavigating wake.

																																																																																												But granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it
																																																																																												not but a mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one
																																																																																												solitary whale, even if encountered, should be thought capable of
																																																																																												individual recognition from his hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti
																																																																																												in the thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople? Yes. For the peculiar
																																																																																												snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and at seemed Ahab rushed from his room,
																																																																																												was for the time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambulistic being,
																																																																																												a ray of living light, to be sure, but without an object to colour, and
																																																																																												therefore a blankness in itself. God help thee, old man, thy thoughts
																																																																																												have created a creature in thee; and he whose intense thinking thus
																																																																																												makes him a Prometheus; a vulture feeds upon that heart for ever; that
																																																																																												vulture the very creature he creates.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 45. The Affidavit.

																																																																																												So far as what there may be of a narrative in this book; and, indeed,
																																																																																												as indirectly touching one or two very interesting and curious
																																																																																												particulars in the habits of sperm whales, the foregoing chapter, in
																																																																																												its earlier part, is as important a one as will be found in this
																																																																																												volume; but the leading matter of it requires to be still further and
																																																																																												more familiarly enlarged upon, in order to be adequately understood,
																																																																																												and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound ignorance of
																																																																																												the entire subject may induce in some minds, as to the natural verity
																																																																																												of the main points of this affair.

																																																																																												I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall be
																																																																																												content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of
																																																																																												items, practically imate acquaintance. Like some
																																																																																												poor devils ashore that happen to know an irascible great man, they
																																																																																												make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the street, lest if they
																																																																																												pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a summary thump
																																																																																												for their presumption.

																																																																																												But not only did each of these famous whales enjoy great individual
																																																																																												celebrity—Nay, you may call it an ocean-wide renown; not only was he
																																																																																												famous in life and now is immortal in forecastle stories after death,
																																																																																												but he was admitted into all the rights, privileges, and distinctions
																																																																																												of a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Cæsar. Was it not
																																																																																												so, O Timor Tom! thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg, who so
																																																																																												long did’st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was
																																																																																												oft seen from the palmy beach of Ombay? Was it not so, O New Zealand
																																																																																												Jack! thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the
																																																																																												vicinity of the Tattoo Land? Was it not so, O Morquan! King of Japan,
																																																																																												whose lofty jet they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white
																																																																																												cross against the sky? Was it not so, O Don Miguel! thou Chilian whale,
																																																																																												marked like an old tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back! In
																																																																																												plain prose, heo more idea of
																																																																																												being facetious than Moses, when he wrote the history of the plagues of
																																																																																												Egypt.

																																																																																												But fortunately the special point I here seek can be established upon
																																																																																												testimony entirely independent of my own. That point is this: The Sperm
																																																																																												Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful, knowing, and judiciously
																																																																																												malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in, utterly destroy,
																																																																																												and sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale _has_ done it.

																																																																																												First: In the year 1820 the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of Nantucket,
																																																																																												was cruising in the Pacific Ocean. One day she saw spouts, lowered her
																																																																																												boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales. Ere long, several of
																																																																																												the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale escaping
																																																																																												from the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon the
																																																																																												ship. Dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that
																																																																																												in less than “ten minutes” she settled down and fell over. Not a
																																																																																												surviving plank of her has been seen since. After the severest
																																																																																												exposure, part of the crew reached the land in their boats. Being
																																																																																												returned home at last, Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific
																																																																																												in command of another ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again upon
																																																																																												unknown rocks and breakers; for the second time his ship was utterly
																																																																																												lost, and forthwith forswearing the sea, he has never tempted it since.
																																																																																												At this day Captain Pollard isf-war as to cause her to leak so much as a thimbleful. Very
																																																																																												good; but there is more coming. Some weeks after, the Commodore set
																																																																																												sail in this impregnable craft for Valparaiso. But he was stopped on
																																																																																												the way by a portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments’
																																																																																												confidential business with him. That business consisted in fetching the
																																																																																												Commodore’s craft such a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made
																																																																																												straight for the nearest port to heave down and repair. I am not
																																																																																												superstitious, but I consider the Commodore’s interview with that whale
																																																																																												as providential. Was not Saul of Tarsus converted from unbelief by a
																																																																																												similar fright? I tell you, the sperm whale will stand no nonsense.

																																																																																												I will now refer you to Langsdorff’s Voyages for a little circumstance
																																																																																												in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof. Langsdorff, you
																																																																																												must know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern’s
																																																																																												famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century.
																																																																																												Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter:

																																																																																												“By the thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next day
																																																																																												we were out in the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh. The weather was
																																																																																												very clear and fine, but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to
																																																																																												keep on our fur clothing. For some days we had very little wind; it was
																																																																																												not hquake, somewhere about that time, did actually do great mischief
																																																																																												along the Spanish land. But I should not much wonder if, in the
																																																																																												darkness of that early hour of the morning, the shock was after all
																																																																																												caused by an unseen whale vertically bumping the hull from beneath.

																																																																																												I might proceed with several more examples, one way or another known to
																																																																																												me, of the great power and malice at times of the sperm whale. In more
																																																																																												than one instance, he has been known, not only to chase the assailing
																																																																																												boats back to their ships, but to pursue the ship itself, and long
																																																																																												withstand all the lances hurled at him from its decks. The English ship
																																																																																												Pusie Hall can tell a story on that head; and, as for his strength, let
																																																																																												me say, that there have been examples where the lines attached to a
																																																																																												running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and
																																																																																												secured there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as a
																																																																																												horse walks off with a cart. Again, it is very often observed that, if
																																																																																												the sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts,
																																																																																												not so often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of
																																																																																												destruction to his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquent
																																																																																												indication of his character, that upon being attacked he will
																																																																																												frequently open hnster, that for
																																																																																												half a century stove the ships of a Roman Emperor, must in all
																																																																																												probability have been a sperm whale.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 46. Surmises.

																																																																																												Though, consumed with the hot fire of his purpose, Ahab in all his
																																																																																												thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate capture of Moby
																																																																																												Dick; though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal interests to that
																																																																																												one passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by nature and
																																																																																												long habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman’s ways, altogether
																																																																																												to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage. Or at least if
																																																																																												this were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more
																																																																																												influential with him. It would be refining too much, perhaps, even
																																																																																												considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards the
																																																																																												White Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all
																																																																																												sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he
																																																																																												multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would
																																																																																												prove to be the hated one he hunted. But if such an hypothesis be
																																																																																												indeed exceptionable, there were still additional considerations which,
																																																																																												though not so strictly according with the wildness of his ruling
																																																																																												passion, yet were by no means incapable of swaying him.

																																																																																												To accomplish his object Ahab must use tools; and of all tools used in
																																																																																												the shadow of the moon, men are most apt to get out of order. He knew,
																																																																																												for examng other pious
																																																																																												perquisites by the way. Had they been strictly held to their one final
																																																																																												and romantic object—that final and romantic object, too many would have
																																																																																												turned from in disgust. I will not strip these men, thought Ahab, of
																																																																																												all hopes of cash—aye, cash. They may scorn cash now; but let some
																																																																																												months go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this
																																																																																												same quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash would
																																																																																												soon cashier Ahab.

																																																																																												Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more related
																																																																																												to Ahab personally. Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps
																																																																																												somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the
																																																																																												Pequod’s voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing, he
																																																																																												had indirectly laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of
																																																																																												usurpation; and with perfect impunity, both moral and legal, his crew
																																																																																												if so disposed, and to that end competent, could refuse all further
																																																																																												obedience to him, and even violently wrest from him the command. From
																																																																																												even the barely hinted imputation of usurpation, and the possible
																																																																																												consequences of such a suppressed impression gaining ground, Ahab must
																																																																																												of course have been most anxious to protect himself. That protection
																																																																																												could only consist in his own predominating vibration, indeed, only tending
																																																																																												to that; free will still free to ply her shuttle between given threads;
																																																																																												and chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of
																																																																																												necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though
																																																																																												thus prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the
																																																																																												last featuring blow at events.

																																																																																												Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started at a sound so
																																																																																												strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the ball of
																																																																																												free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds
																																																																																												whence that voice dropped like a wing. High aloft in the cross-trees
																																																																																												was that mad Gay-Header, Tashtego. His body was reaching eagerly
																																																																																												forward, his hand stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden
																																																																																												intervals he continued his cries. To be sure the same sound was that
																																																																																												very moment perhaps being heard all over the seas, from hundreds of
																																																																																												whalemen’s look-outs perched as high in the air; but from few of those
																																																																																												lungs could that accustomed old cry have derived such a marvellous
																																																																																												cadence as from Tashtego the Indian’s.

																																																																																												As he stood hovering over you half suspended in air, so wildly and
																																																																																												eagerly peering towards the horizon, you would have thought him some
																																																																																												prophet or seer beholding the shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries
																																																																																												announcing their coming.

																																																																																												“There she blows! there! there! there! she blows! she blows!”

																																																																																												“Where-away?”

																																																																																												“On the lee-beam, about two miles off! a school of them!”

																																																																																												Instantly all was commotion.

																																																																																												The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the same undeviating and
																																																																																												relithis figure were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion
																																																																																												peculiar to some of the aboriginal natives of the Manillas;—a race
																																																																																												notorious for a certain diabolism of subtilty, and by some honest white
																																																																																												mariners supposed to be the paid spies and secret confidential agents
																																																																																												on the water of the devil, their lord, whose counting-room they suppose
																																																																																												to be elsewhere.

																																																																																												While yet the wondering ship’s company were gazing upon these
																																																																																												strangers, Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head,
																																																																																												“All ready there, Fedallah?”

																																																																																												“Ready,” was the half-hissed reply.

																																																																																												“Lower away then; d’ye hear?” shouting across the deck. “Lower away
																																																																																												there, I say.”

																																																																																												Such was the thunder of his voice, that spite of their amazement the
																																																																																												men sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled round in the blocks; with
																																																																																												a wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea; while, with a
																																																																																												dexterous, off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation, the
																																																																																												sailors, goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship’s side into the tossed
																																																																																												boats below.

																																																																																												Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship’s lee, when a fourth
																																																																																												keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern, and
																																																																																												showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the
																																																																																												stern, loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselves
																																																																																												widely, so as to cover a large expanse of water. But with all theid hear
																																																																																												such queer invocations without pulling for dear life, and yet pulling
																																																																																												for the mere joke of the thing. Besides he all the time looked so easy
																																																																																												and indolent himself, so loungingly managed his steering-oar, and so
																																																																																												broadly gaped—open-mouthed at times—that the mere sight of such a
																																																																																												yawning commander, by sheer force of contrast, acted like a charm upon
																																																																																												the crew. Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists,
																																																																																												whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put all
																																																																																												inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them.

																																																																																												In obedience to a sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely
																																																																																												across Stubb’s bow; and when for a minute or so the two boats were
																																																																																												pretty near to each other, Stubb hailed the mate.

																																																																																												“Mr. Starbuck! larboard boat there, ahoy! a word with ye, sir, if ye
																																																																																												please!”

																																																																																												“Halloa!” returned Starbuck, turning round not a single inch as he
																																																																																												spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face set
																																																																																												like a flint from Stubb’s.

																																																																																												“What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!”

																																																																																												“Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong,
																																																																																												boys!)” in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: “A sad
																																																																																												business, Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind,
																																																																																												Mr. Stubb, all for the best. Let all your crew pull strong, come what
																																																																																												will. (Spring, my men, spring!) There’s hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr.
																																																																																												Stubb, and that’s settled bodily
																																																																																												down into the blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the
																																																																																												movement, though from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.

																																																																																												“Every man look out along his oars!” cried Starbuck. “Thou, Queequeg,
																																																																																												stand up!”

																																																																																												Nimbly springing up on the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage
																																																																																												stood erect there, and with intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the
																																																																																												spot where the chase had last been descried. Likewise upon the extreme
																																																																																												stern of the boat where it was also triangularly platformed level with
																																																																																												the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen coolly and adroitly balancing
																																																																																												himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a craft, and silently
																																																																																												eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea.

																																																																																												Not very far distant Flask’s boat was also lying breathlessly still;
																																																																																												its commander recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a
																																																																																												stout sort of post rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above
																																																																																												the level of the stern platform. It is used for catching turns with the
																																																																																												whale line. Its top is not more spacious than the palm of a man’s hand,
																																																																																												and standing upon such a base as that, Flask seemed perched at the
																																																																																												mast-head of some ship which had sunk to all but her trucks. But little
																																																																																												King-Post was small and short, and at the same time little King-Post
																																																																																												was full of a large and tall ambition, so thatment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white
																																																																																												water, and thin scattered puffs of vapor hovering over it, and
																																																																																												suffusingly blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from white
																																																																																												rolling billows. The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it
																																																																																												were, like the air over intensely heated plates of iron. Beneath this
																																																																																												atmospheric waving and curling, and partially beneath a thin layer of
																																																																																												water, also, the whales were swimming. Seen in advance of all the other
																																																																																												indications, the puffs of vapor they spouted, seemed their forerunning
																																																																																												couriers and detached flying outriders.

																																																																																												All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled
																																																																																												water and air. But it bade fair to outstrip them; it flew on and on, as
																																																																																												a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the
																																																																																												hills.

																																																																																												“Pull, pull, my good boys,” said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but
																																																																																												intensest concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance
																																																																																												from his eyes darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two
																																																																																												visible needles in two unerring binnacle compasses. He did not say much
																																																																																												to his crew, though, nor did his crew say anything to him. Only the
																																																																																												silence of the boat was at intervals startlingly pierced by one of his
																																																																																												peculiar whispers, now harsh with comth the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, and
																																																																																												the shuddering gasps of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the
																																																																																												ivory Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like
																																																																																												a wild hen after her screaming brood;—all this was thrilling.

																																																																																												Not the raw recruit, marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever
																																																																																												heat of his first battle; not the dead man’s ghost encountering the
																																																																																												first unknown phantom in the other world;—neither of these can feel
																																																																																												stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first
																																																																																												time finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of the
																																																																																												hunted sperm whale.

																																																																																												The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and
																																																																																												more visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadows
																																																																																												flung upon the sea. The jets of vapor no longer blended, but tilted
																																																																																												everywhere to right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes.
																																																																																												The boats were pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales
																																																																																												running dead to leeward. Our sail was now set, and, with the still
																																																																																												rising wind, we rushed along; the boat going with such madness through
																																																																																												the water, that the lee oars could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to
																																																																																												escape being torn from the row-locks.

																																																																																												Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist; neither
																																																																																												ship nor boat to be seen.

																																																																																												“Give way, men,” whispered Starbuck, drawing still fuhope. There, then, he sat, holding up
																																																																																												that imbecile candle in the heart of that almighty forlornness. There,
																																																																																												then, he sat, the sign and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly
																																																																																												holding up hope in the midst of despair.

																																																																																												Wet, drenched through, and shivering cold, despairing of ship or boat,
																																																																																												we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on. The mist still spread over
																																																																																												the sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat.
																																																																																												Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his ear.
																																																																																												We all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled
																																																																																												by the storm. The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were
																																																																																												dimly parted by a huge, vague form. Affrighted, we all sprang into the
																																																																																												sea as the ship at last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us
																																																																																												within a distance of not much more than its length.

																																																																																												Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as for one instant it
																																																																																												tossed and gaped beneath the ship’s bows like a chip at the base of a
																																																																																												cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was seen no
																																																																																												more till it came up weltering astern. Again we swam for it, were
																																																																																												dashed against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely
																																																																																												landed on board. Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut
																																																																																												loose from their fish and returned to the ship in good time. The ship
																																																																																												had given us up, but was still cruising, if haply it might light uponthree impartial witnesses, I had a deliberate statement
																																																																																												of the entire case. Considering, therefore, that squalls and capsizings
																																																																																												in the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters of
																																																																																												common occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at the
																																																																																												superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign
																																																																																												my life into the hands of him who steered the boat—oftentimes a fellow
																																																																																												who at that very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of
																																																																																												scuttling the craft with his own frantic stampings; considering that
																																																																																												the particular disaster to our own particular boat was chiefly to be
																																																																																												imputed to Starbuck’s driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a
																																																																																												squall, and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for
																																																																																												his great heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to
																																																																																												this uncommonly prudent Starbuck’s boat; and finally considering in
																																																																																												what a devil’s chase I was implicated, touching the White Whale: taking
																																																																																												all things together, I say, I thought I might as well go below and make
																																																																																												a rough draft of my will. “Queequeg,” said I, “come along, you shall be
																																																																																												my lawyer, executor, and legatee.”

																																																																																												It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at
																																																																																												their last wills and testaevertheless he had taken private measures of his own touching all that
																																																																																												matter. Until Cabaco’s published discovery, the sailors had little
																																																																																												foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little while out of
																																																																																												port, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting the
																																																																																												whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then
																																																																																												found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his
																																																																																												own hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even
																																																																																												solicitously cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the line is
																																																																																												running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was
																																																																																												observed in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra
																																																																																												coat of sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better
																																																																																												withstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety
																																																																																												he evinced in exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it
																																																																																												is sometimes called, the horizontal piece in the boat’s bow for bracing
																																																																																												the knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was
																																																																																												observed how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee
																																																																																												fixed in the semi-circular depression in the cleat, and with the
																																																																																												carpenter’s chisel gouged out a little here and straightened it a
																																																																																												little there; all these things, I say, had awakened much interest and
																																																																																												ng through these latter waters that one serene and
																																																																																												moonlight night, when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver;
																																																																																												and, by their soft, suffusing seethings, made what seemed a silvery
																																																																																												silence, not a solitude; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen
																																																																																												far in advance of the white bubbles at the bow. Lit up by the moon, it
																																																																																												looked celestial; seemed some plumed and glittering god uprising from
																																																																																												the sea. Fedallah first descried this jet. For of these moonlight
																																																																																												nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head, and stand a
																																																																																												look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day. And yet,
																																																																																												though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman in a
																																																																																												hundred would venture a lowering for them. You may think with what
																																																																																												emotions, then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at
																																																																																												such unusual hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky. But
																																																																																												when, after spending his uniform interval there for several successive
																																																																																												nights without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence,
																																																																																												his unearthly voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet,
																																																																																												every reclining mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit
																																																																																												had lighted in the rigging, and hailed the mortal crew. “There she
																																																																																												blows!” Had the trump of judgment blown, they could not have quivered
																																																																																												more; yet still thed days we voyaged along, through seas so
																																																																																												wearily, lonesomely mild, that all space, in repugnance to our vengeful
																																																																																												errand, seemed vacating itself of life before our urn-like prow.

																																																																																												But, at last, when turning to the eastward, the Cape winds began
																																																																																												howling around us, and we rose and fell upon the long, troubled seas
																																																																																												that are there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to the
																																																																																												blast, and gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of
																																																																																												silver chips, the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this
																																																																																												desolate vacuity of life went away, but gave place to sights more
																																																																																												dismal than before.

																																																																																												Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither
																																																																																												before us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens. And
																																																																																												every morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and
																																																																																												spite of our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp,
																																																																																												as though they deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a
																																																																																												thing appointed to desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for
																																																																																												their homeless selves. And heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved
																																																																																												the black sea, as if its vast tides were a conscience; and the great
																																																																																												mundane soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering
																																																																																												it had bred.

																																																																																												Cape of Gible old man! thought Starbuck with a shudder, sleeping in this
																																																																																												gale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 52. The Albatross.

																																																																																												South-eastward from the Cape, off the distant Crozetts, a good cruising
																																																																																												ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed ahead, the Goney (Albatross)
																																																																																												by name. As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty perch at the
																																																																																												fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to a tyro
																																																																																												in the far ocean fisheries—a whaler at sea, and long absent from home.

																																																																																												As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the
																																																																																												skeleton of a stranded walrus. All down her sides, this spectral
																																																																																												appearance was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all
																																																																																												her spars and her rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred
																																																																																												over with hoar-frost. Only her lower sails were set. A wild sight it
																																																																																												was to see her long-bearded look-outs at those three mast-heads. They
																																																																																												seemed clad in the skins of beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment
																																																																																												that had survived nearly four years of cruising. Standing in iron hoops
																																																																																												nailed to the mast, they swayed and swung over a fathomless sea; and
																																																																																												though, when the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men
																																																																																												in the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped
																																																																																												from the mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those
																																																																																												forlorn-looking fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not
																																																																																												one word to our own look-outs, while the quarter-deck hails round globe, they
																																																																																												either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us whelmed.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 53. The Gam.

																																																																																												The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on board of the whaler we had
																																																																																												spoken was this: the wind and sea betokened storms. But even had this
																																																																																												not been the case, he would not after all, perhaps, have boarded
																																																																																												her—judging by his subsequent conduct on similar occasions—if so it had
																																																																																												been that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained a negative answer
																																																																																												to the question he put. For, as it eventually turned out, he cared not
																																																																																												to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain, except he
																																																																																												could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly sought. But
																																																																																												all this might remain inadequately estimated, were not something said
																																																																																												here of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when meeting each other
																																																																																												in foreign seas, and especially on a common cruising-ground.

																																																																																												If two strangers crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or the
																																																																																												equally desolate Salisbury Plain in England; if casually encountering
																																																																																												each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for the life of
																																																																																												them, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a moment
																																																																																												to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while and
																																																																																												resting in concert: then, how mand they are so. Whereas, some
																																																																																												merchant ships crossing each other’s wake in the mid-Atlantic, will
																																																																																												oftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition,
																																																																																												mutually cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandies
																																																																																												in Broadway; and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism
																																																																																												upon each other’s rig. As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet at
																																																																																												sea, they first go through such a string of silly bowings and
																																																																																												scrapings, such a ducking of ensigns, that there does not seem to be
																																																																																												much right-down hearty good-will and brotherly love about it at all. As
																																																																																												touching Slave-ships meeting, why, they are in such a prodigious hurry,
																																																																																												they run away from each other as soon as possible. And as for Pirates,
																																																																																												when they chance to cross each other’s cross-bones, the first hail
																																																																																												is—“How many skulls?”—the same way that whalers hail—“How many
																																																																																												barrels?” And that question once answered, pirates straightway steer
																																																																																												apart, for they are infernal villains on both sides, and don’t like to
																																																																																												see overmuch of each other’s villanous likenesses.

																																																																																												But look at the godly, honest, unostentatious, hospitable, sociable,
																																																																																												free-and-easy whaler! What does the whaler do when she meets another
																																																																																												whaler in any sort of decent weather? She has a “_Gam_,” a thing so
																																																																																												utterly unknown to all other ships that they never heard of the name
																																																																																												even; and if by chance they should hear of it, they only grin at it,
																																																																																												and repeat gamesome stuff about “spouters” and “blubbee to
																																																																																												the importance of sustaining his dignity by maintaining his legs. Nor
																																																																																												is this any very easy matter; for in his rear is the immense projecting
																																																																																												steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of his back, the
																																																																																												after-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front. He is thus
																																																																																												completely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself
																																																																																												sideways by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violent
																																																																																												pitch of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length of
																																																																																												foundation is nothing without corresponding breadth. Merely make a
																																																																																												spread angle of two poles, and you cannot stand them up. Then, again,
																																																																																												it would never do in plain sight of the world’s riveted eyes, it would
																																																																																												never do, I say, for this straddling captain to be seen steadying
																																																																																												himself the slightest particle by catching hold of anything with his
																																																																																												hands; indeed, as token of his entire, buoyant self-command, he
																																																																																												generally carries his hands in his trowsers’ pockets; but perhaps being
																																																																																												generally very large, heavy hands, he carries them there for ballast.
																																																																																												Nevertheless there have occurred instances, well authenticated ones
																																																																																												too, where the captain has been known for an uncommonly critical moment
																																																																																												or two, in a sudden squall say—to seize hold of the nearest oarsman’s
																																																																																												hair, and hold on there like grim death.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 54. The Town-Ho’s Story.

																																																																																												(_As told at the Golden Inn._)

																																																																																												The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is
																																																																																												much like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meet
																																																																																												more travellers than in any other part.

																																																																																												It was not very long after speaking the Goney that another
																																																																																												homeward-bound whaleman,er hold
																																																																																												than common. They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen. But
																																																																																												the captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good
																																																																																												luck awaited him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse to
																																																																																												quit them, and the leak not being then considered at all dangerous,
																																																																																												though, indeed, they could not find it after searching the hold as low
																																																																																												down as was possible in rather heavy weather, the ship still continued
																																																																																												her cruisings, the mariners working at the pumps at wide and easy
																																																																																												intervals; but no good luck came; more days went by, and not only was
																																																																																												the leak yet undiscovered, but it sensibly increased. So much so, that
																																																																																												now taking some alarm, the captain, making all sail, stood away for the
																																																																																												nearest harbor among the islands, there to have his hull hove out and
																																																																																												repaired.

																																																																																												“Though no small passage was before her, yet, if the commonest chance
																																																																																												favoured, he did not at all fear that his ship would founder by the
																																																																																												way, because his pumps were of the best, and being periodically
																																																																																												relieved at them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily keep the
																																																																																												ship free; never mind if the leak should double on her. In truth, well
																																																																																												nigh the whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous
																																																																																												breezes, the Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in pes. Yet
																																																																																												was this Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted traits; and this
																																																																																												Lakeman, a mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed, might yet by
																																																																																												inflexible firmness, only tempered by that common decency of human
																																																																																												recognition which is the meanest slave’s right; thus treated, this
																																																																																												Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile. At all events, he
																																																																																												had proved so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, and
																																																																																												Steelkilt—but, gentlemen, you shall hear.

																																																																																												“It was not more than a day or two at the furthest after pointing her
																																																																																												prow for her island haven, that the Town-Ho’s leak seemed again
																																																																																												increasing, but only so as to require an hour or more at the pumps
																																																																																												every day. You must know that in a settled and civilized ocean like our
																																																																																												Atlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping their
																																																																																												whole way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should the
																																																																																												officer of the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, the
																																																																																												probability would be that he and his shipmates would never again
																																																																																												remember it, on account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom.
																																																																																												Nor in the solitary and savage seas far from you to the westward,
																																																																																												gentlemen, is it altogether unusual for ships to keep clanging at their
																																																																																												pump-handles in full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length;
																																																																																												that is, if it lie along a tolerably rpenters, saw-fish, and file-fish, and what not; and the whole
																																																																																												posse of ’em are now hard at work cutting and slashing at the bottom;
																																																																																												making improvements, I suppose. If old Rad were here now, I’d tell him
																																																																																												to jump overboard and scatter ’em. They’re playing the devil with his
																																																																																												estate, I can tell him. But he’s a simple old soul,—Rad, and a beauty
																																																																																												too. Boys, they say the rest of his property is invested in
																																																																																												looking-glasses. I wonder if he’d give a poor devil like me the model
																																																																																												of his nose.’

																																																																																												“‘Damn your eyes! what’s that pump stopping for?’ roared Radney,
																																																																																												pretending not to have heard the sailors’ talk. ‘Thunder away at it!’

																																																																																												“‘Aye, aye, sir,’ said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket. ‘Lively, boys,
																																																																																												lively, now!’ And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines;
																																																																																												the men tossed their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping
																																																																																												of the lungs was heard which denotes the fullest tension of life’s
																																																																																												utmost energies.

																																																																																												“Quitting the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went
																																																																																												forward all panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face
																																																																																												fiery red, his eyes bloodshot, and wiping the prorbearance the sweating Steelkilt
																																																																																												could but ill brook this bearing in the mate; but somehow still
																																																																																												smothering the conflagration within him, without speaking he remained
																																																																																												doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the incensed Radney shook the
																																																																																												hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously commanding him to do
																																																																																												his bidding.

																																																																																												“Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating round the windlass, steadily
																																																																																												followed by the mate with his menacing hammer, deliberately repeated
																																																																																												his intention not to obey. Seeing, however, that his forbearance had
																																																																																												not the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable intimation with
																																																																																												his twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man; but it
																																																																																												was to no purpose. And in this way the two went once slowly round the
																																																																																												windlass; when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him
																																																																																												that he had now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the
																																																																																												Lakeman paused on the hatches and thus spoke to the officer:

																																																																																												“‘Mr. Radney, I will not obey you. Take that hammer away, or look to
																																																																																												yourself.’ But the predestinated mate coming still closer to him, where
																																																																																												the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the heavy hammer within an inch of
																																																																																												his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of insufferable maledictions.
																																																																																												Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch; stabbing him in the eye
																																																																																												with the unflinching poniard of his glance, Steelkilt, clenching his
																																																																																												right handerb all along this coast—“Corrupt as Lima.”
																																																																																												It but bears out your saying, too; churches more plentiful than
																																																																																												billiard-tables, and for ever open—and “Corrupt as Lima.” So, too,
																																																																																												Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist, St.
																																																																																												Mark!—St. Dominic, purge it! Your cup! Thanks: here I refill; now, you
																																																																																												pour out again.’

																																																																																												“Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the Canaller would
																																																																																												make a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely wicked is
																																																																																												he. Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed, flowery
																																																																																												Nile, he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked
																																																																																												Cleopatra, ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck. But ashore,
																																																																																												all this effeminacy is dashed. The brigandish guise which the Canaller
																																																																																												so proudly sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his
																																																																																												grand features. A terror to the smiling innocence of the villages
																																																																																												through which he floats; his swart visage and bold swagger are not
																																																																																												unshunned in cities. Once a vagabond on his own canal, I have received
																																																																																												good turns from one of these Canallers; I thank him heartily; would
																																																																																												fain be not ungrateful; but it is often one of the prime redeeming
																																																																																												qualities of your man of violence, that at times he has as stiff an arm
																																																																																												to back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthied Steelkilt. ‘Aye, let her sink. Not a man of us
																																																																																												turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us. What
																																																																																												say ye, men?’ turning to his comrades. A fierce cheer was their
																																																																																												response.

																																																																																												“The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping his eye
																																																																																												on the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these:—‘It’s not our
																																																																																												fault; we didn’t want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was
																																																																																												boy’s business; he might have known me before this; I told him not to
																																																																																												prick the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his
																																																																																												cursed jaw; ain’t those mincing knives down in the forecastle there,
																																																																																												men? look to those handspikes, my hearties. Captain, by God, look to
																																																																																												yourself; say the word; don’t be a fool; forget it all; we are ready to
																																																																																												turn to; treat us decently, and we’re your men; but we won’t be
																																																																																												flogged.’

																																																																																												“‘Turn to! I make no promises, turn to, I say!’

																																																																																												“‘Look ye, now,’ cried the Lakeman, flinging out his arm towards him,
																																																																																												‘there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who have shipped for
																																																																																												the cruise, d’ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can claim our
																																																																																												discharge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don’t want a row; it’s
																																																																																												not our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we
																																																																																												welkilt.

																																																																																												“‘Oh certainly,’ said the Captain, and the key clicked.

																																																																																												“It was at this point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection of
																																																																																												seven of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that had
																																																																																												last hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place as
																																																																																												black as the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to
																																																																																												the two Canallers, thus far apparently of one mind with him, to burst
																																																																																												out of their hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed with
																																																																																												their keen mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with a
																																																																																												handle at each end) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and if
																																																																																												by any devilishness of desperation possible, seize the ship. For
																																																																																												himself, he would do this, he said, whether they joined him or not.
																																																																																												That was the last night he should spend in that den. But the scheme met
																																																																																												with no opposition on the part of the other two; they swore they were
																																																																																												ready for that, or for any other mad thing, for anything in short but a
																																																																																												surrender. And what was more, they each insisted upon being the first
																																																																																												man on deck, when the time to make the rush should come. But to this
																																																																																												their leader as fiercely objected, reserving that priority for himself;
																																																																																												particularly as his two comrades would not yield, the one to the other,
																																																																																												in the matter; and both of them could not be first, for the ladder
																																																																																												would but admit one man at a time. And here, gentlemen, the foul play
																																																																																												of these miscreants must come out.

																																																																																												â ye frighten me’—and the Captain drew off with
																																																																																												the rope to strike.

																																																																																												“‘Best not,’ hissed the Lakeman.

																																																																																												“‘But I must,’—and the rope was once more drawn back for the stroke.

																																																																																												“Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the Captain;
																																																																																												who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck
																																																																																												rapidly two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope,
																																																																																												said, ‘I won’t do it—let him go—cut him down: d’ye hear?’

																																																																																												“But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order, a pale
																																																																																												man, with a bandaged head, arrested them—Radney the chief mate. Ever
																																																																																												since the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the
																																																																																												tumult on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the
																																																																																												whole scene. Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardly
																																																																																												speak; but mumbling something about _his_ being willing and able to do
																																																																																												what the captain dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advanced
																																																																																												to his pinioned foe.

																																																																																												“‘You are a coward!’ hissed the Lakeman.

																																																																																												“‘So I am, but take that.’ The mate was in the very act of striking,
																																																																																												when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm. He paused: and then pausing
																																																																																												no more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt’s threat, whatever that
																																																																																												might have been. The thrwill answer. Shipmate, I haven’t enough
																																																																																												twine,—have you any?’

																																																																																												“But there was none in the forecastle.

																																																																																												“‘Then I must get some from old Rad;’ and he rose to go aft.

																																																																																												“‘You don’t mean to go a begging to _him!_’ said a sailor.

																																																																																												“‘Why not? Do you think he won’t do me a turn, when it’s to help
																																																																																												himself in the end, shipmate?’ and going to the mate, he looked at him
																																																																																												quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock. It was given
																																																																																												him—neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night an
																																																																																												iron ball, closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the
																																																																																												Lakeman’s monkey jacket, as he was tucking the coat into his hammock
																																																																																												for a pillow. Twenty-four hours after, his trick at the silent
																																																																																												helm—nigh to the man who was apt to doze over the grave always ready
																																																																																												dug to the seaman’s hand—that fatal hour was then to come; and in the
																																																																																												fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and
																																																																																												stretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.

																																																																																												“But, gentlemen, a fool saved the would-be murderer from the bloody
																																																																																												deed he had planned. Yet complete revenge he had, and without being the
																																																																																												avenger. For by a mysterious fatality, Heaven itself seemed to step in
																																																																																												to take out of his hands into its own the damning thing he would havhat
																																																																																												veil, wildly seeking to remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick. But
																																																																																												the whale rushed round in a sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer
																																																																																												between his jaws; and rearing high up with him, plunged headlong again,
																																																																																												and went down.

																																																																																												“Meantime, at the first tap of the boat’s bottom, the Lakeman had
																																																																																												slackened the line, so as to drop astern from the whirlpool; calmly
																																																																																												looking on, he thought his own thoughts. But a sudden, terrific,
																																																																																												downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his knife to the line. He
																																																																																												cut it; and the whale was free. But, at some distance, Moby Dick rose
																																																																																												again, with some tatters of Radney’s red woollen shirt, caught in the
																																																																																												teeth that had destroyed him. All four boats gave chase again; but the
																																																																																												whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared.

																																																																																												“In good time, the Town-Ho reached her port—a savage, solitary
																																																																																												place—where no civilized creature resided. There, headed by the
																																																																																												Lakeman, all but five or six of the foremastmen deliberately deserted
																																																																																												among the palms; eventually, as it turned out, seizing a large double
																																																																																												war-canoe of the savages, and setting sail for some other harbor.

																																																																																												“The ship’s company being reduced to but a handful, the captain called
																																																																																												upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious business of heaving
																																																																																												down the ship to stop the leak. But to such unresting v
																																																																																												Nantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea which refuses to
																																																																																												give up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale that
																																																																																												destroyed him.  * * * *

																																																																																												“‘Are you through?’ said Don Sebastian, quietly.

																																																																																												“‘I am, Don.’

																																																																																												“‘Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions,
																																																																																												this your story is in substance really true? It is so passing
																																																																																												wonderful! Did you get it from an unquestionable source? Bear with me
																																																																																												if I seem to press.’

																																																																																												“‘Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don
																																																																																												Sebastian’s suit,’ cried the company, with exceeding interest.

																																																																																												“‘Is there a copy of the Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn,
																																																																																												gentlemen?’

																																																																																												“‘Nay,’ said Don Sebastian; ‘but I know a worthy priest near by, who
																																																																																												will quickly procure one for me. I go for it; but are you well advised?
																																																																																												this may grow too serious.’

																																																																																												“‘Will you be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?’

																																																																																												“‘Though there are no Auto-da-Fés in Lima now,’ said one of the company
																																																																																												to another; ‘I fear our sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy.
																																																																																												Let us withdraw more out of the moonlight. I see no need of this.’

																																																																																												“‘Excuse me for running after you, Don Sebastian; but may I also beg
																																																																																												that you will be particular in procuGuido’s picture of Perseus rescuing
																																																																																												Andromeda from the sea-monster or whale. Where did Guido get the model
																																																																																												of such a strange creature as that? Nor does Hogarth, in painting the
																																																																																												same scene in his own “Perseus Descending,” make out one whit better.
																																																																																												The huge corpulence of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the
																																																																																												surface, scarcely drawing one inch of water. It has a sort of howdah on
																																																																																												its back, and its distended tusked mouth into which the billows are
																																																																																												rolling, might be taken for the Traitors’ Gate leading from the Thames
																																																																																												by water into the Tower. Then, there are the Prodromus whales of old
																																																																																												Scotch Sibbald, and Jonah’s whale, as depicted in the prints of old
																																																																																												Bibles and the cuts of old primers. What shall be said of these? As for
																																																																																												the book-binder’s whale winding like a vine-stalk round the stock of a
																																																																																												descending anchor—as stamped and gilded on the backs and title-pages of
																																																																																												many books both old and new—that is a very picturesque but purely
																																																																																												fabulous creature, imitated, I take it, from the like figures on
																																																																																												antique vases. Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless
																																																																																												call this book-binder’s fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so
																																																																																												intended when the device was first introduced. It was introduced by an
																																																																																												old Italian publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the
																																																																																												Rebut the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland
																																																																																												whale (that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long
																																																																																												experienced man as touching that species, declares not to have its
																																																																																												counterpart in nature.

																																																																																												But the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was
																																																																																												reserved for the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous
																																																																																												Baron. In 1836, he published a Natural History of Whales, in which he
																																																																																												gives what he calls a picture of the Sperm Whale. Before showing that
																																																																																												picture to any Nantucketer, you had best provide for your summary
																																																																																												retreat from Nantucket. In a word, Frederick Cuvier’s Sperm Whale is
																																																																																												not a Sperm Whale, but a squash. Of course, he never had the benefit of
																																																																																												a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but whence he derived that
																																																																																												picture, who can tell? Perhaps he got it as his scientific predecessor
																																																																																												in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his authentic abortions; that
																																																																																												is, from a Chinese drawing. And what sort of lively lads with the
																																																																																												pencil those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers inform us.

																																																																																												As for the sign-painters’ whales seeed to the last. True, one portrait may hit the
																																																																																												mark much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very
																																																																																												considerable degree of exactness. So there is no earthly way of finding
																																																																																												out precisely what the whale really looks like. And the only mode in
																																																																																												which you can derive even a tolerable idea of his living contour, is by
																																																																																												going a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of
																																																																																												being eternally stove and sunk by him. Wherefore, it seems to me you
																																																																																												had best not be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this
																																																																																												Leviathan.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 56. Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the True
																																																																																												Pictures of Whaling Scenes.

																																																																																												In connexion with the monstrous pictures of whales, I am strongly
																																																																																												tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous stories of them
																																																																																												which are to be found in certain books, both ancient and modern,
																																																																																												especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc. But I pass
																																																																																												that matter by.

																																																																																												I know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm Whale;
																																																																																												Colnett’s, Huggins’s, Frederick Cuvier’s, and Beale’s. In the previous
																																																																																												chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to. Huggins’s is far
																																																																																												better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale’s is the best. All
																																																																																												Beale’s drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in
																																																																																												the picture of three whales in various attitudes, capping his second
																																																																																												chapter. His frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no
																																																																																												doubt calculated to eboat to rock in the swells like a skiff caught nigh
																																																																																												the paddle-wheels of an ocean steamer. Thus, the foreground is all
																																																																																												raging commotion; but behind, in admirable artistic contrast, is the
																																																																																												glassy level of a sea becalmed, the drooping unstarched sails of the
																																																																																												powerless ship, and the inert mass of a dead whale, a conquered
																																																																																												fortress, with the flag of capture lazily hanging from the whale-pole
																																																																																												inserted into his spout-hole.

																																																																																												Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not. But my life for it he
																																																																																												was either practically conversant with his subject, or else
																																																																																												marvellously tutored by some experienced whaleman. The French are the
																																																																																												lads for painting action. Go and gaze upon all the paintings of Europe,
																																																																																												and where will you find such a gallery of living and breathing
																																																																																												commotion on canvas, as in that triumphal hall at Versailles; where the
																																																																																												beholder fights his way, pell-mell, through the consecutive great
																																																																																												battles of France; where every sword seems a flash of the Northern
																																																																																												Lights, and the successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a
																																																																																												charge of crowned centaurs? Not wholly unworthy of a place in that
																																																																																												gallery, are these sea battle-pieces of Garnery.

																																																																																												The natural aptitude of the French for seizing the picturesqueness of
																																																																																												things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what paintings and engravings
																																																																																												they have of their whaling scenes. With not one tenth of England’s
																																																																																												experience in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of that of the
																																																																																												Americans, they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the only
																																																																																												finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of the
																																																																																												whale ; in Mountains; in Stars.

																																																																																												On Tower-hill, as you go down to the London docks, you may have seen a
																																																																																												crippled beggar (or _kedger_, as the sailors say) holding a painted
																																																																																												board before him, representing the tragic scene in which he lost his
																																																																																												leg. There are three whales and three boats; and one of the boats
																																																																																												(presumed to contain the missing leg in all its original integrity) is
																																																																																												being crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale. Any time these ten
																																																																																												years, they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and exhibited
																																																																																												that stump to an incredulous world. But the time of his justification
																																																																																												has now come. His three whales are as good whales as were ever
																																																																																												published in Wapping, at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a
																																																																																												stump as any you will find in the western clearings. But, though for
																																																																																												ever mounted on that stump, never a stump-speech does the poor whaleman
																																																																																												make; but, with downcast eyes, stands ruefully contemplating his own
																																																																																												amputation.

																																																																																												Throughout the Pacific, and also in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and Sag
																																																																																												Harbor, you will come across lively sketches of whales and
																																																																																												whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on Sperm
																																																																																												Whale-teeth, or ladies’ busks wrought out of the Right Whale-bone, and
																																																																																												other like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous
																																																																																												little ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough
																																																																																												material, in their hours of ocean leisure. Some of them have little
																																																																																												boxes of dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the
																																																																																												skrimshandering business. But, in general, they toil with their
																																																																																												jack-knives alone; and, with that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor,
																																																																																												they will turn you out anything you please, in the way of a mariner’s
																																																																																												fancy.

																																																																																												Long exile from Christendom and civilization inevitably restores a man
																																																																																												to that condition in which God placed him, _i.e._ what is call point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the
																																																																																												profiles of whales defined along the undulating ridges. But you must be
																																																																																												a thorough whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you
																																																																																												wish to return to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the
																																																																																												exact intersecting latitude and longitude of your first stand-point,
																																																																																												else so chance-like are such observations of the hills, that your
																																																																																												precise, previous stand-point would require a laborious re-discovery;
																																																																																												like the Soloma Islands, which still remain incognita, though once
																																																																																												high-ruffed Mendanna trod them and old Figuera chronicled them.

																																																																																												Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to trace out
																																																																																												great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them; as
																																																																																												when long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies
																																																																																												locked in battle among the clouds. Thus at the North have I chased
																																																																																												Leviathan round and round the Pole with the revolutions of the bright
																																																																																												points that first defined him to me. And beneath the effulgent
																																																																																												Antarctic skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis, and joined the chase
																																																																																												against the starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of Hydrus and
																																																																																												the Flying Fish.

																																																																																												With a frigate’s anchors fen regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and
																																																																																												repelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita,
																																																																																												so that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his
																																																																																												one superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific of
																																																																																												all mortal disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen
																																																																																												tens and hundreds of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters;
																																																																																												though but a moment’s consideration will teach, that however baby man
																																																																																												may brag of his science and skill, and however much, in a flattering
																																																																																												future, that science and skill may augment; yet for ever and for ever,
																																																																																												to the crack of doom, the sea will insult and murder him, and pulverize
																																																																																												the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can make; nevertheless, by the
																																																																																												continual repetition of these very impressions, man has lost that sense
																																																																																												of the full awfulness of the sea which aboriginally belongs to it.

																																																																																												The first boat we read of, floated on an ocean, that with Portuguese
																																																																																												vengeance had whelmed a whole world without leaving so much as a widow.
																																																																																												That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean destroyed the wrecked ships
																																																																																												of last year. Yea, foolish mortals, Noah’s flood is not yet subsided;
																																																																																												two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.

																																																																																												Wherein differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a
																																																																																												miracle upon the other? Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews,
																																																																																												when under the feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened and
																																																																																												swallowed them up for ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in
																																																																																												precisely the same manner the live sea swallows up ships and crews.

																																																																																												But not only is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it, but it
																																																																																												is also a fiend to its own off-spring; worse than the Persian host who
																																																																																												murdered his own guests; sparing not the creatures which itself hath
																																																																																												spawned. Like a savage tigress that tossing in the jungle overlays her
																																																																																												own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against the
																																																																																												rocks, and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks of
																																																																																												ships. No mercy, no power but its own controls it. Panting and snorting
																																																																																												like a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean
																																																																																												overrr a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank. Then once more arose,
																																																																																												and silently gleamed. It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick?
																																																																																												thought Daggoo. Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once
																																																																																												more, with a stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod,
																																																																																												the negro yelled out—“There! there again! there she breaches! right
																																																																																												ahead! The White Whale, the White Whale!”

																																																																																												Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in swarming-time the
																																																																																												bees rush to the boughs. Bare-headed in the sultry sun, Ahab stood on
																																																																																												the bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness to wave
																																																																																												his orders to the helmsman, cast his eager glance in the direction
																																																																																												indicated aloft by the outstretched motionless arm of Daggoo.

																																																																																												Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and solitary jet had
																																																																																												gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to connect the
																																																																																												ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the particular
																																																																																												whale he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagerness betrayed
																																																																																												him; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly
																																																																																												perceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave
																																																																																												orders for lowering.

																																																																																												The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab’s in advance, and all
																																																																																												swiftly have vaguely heard rumors of the mysterious
																																																																																												creature, here spoken of, it is included among the class of
																																																																																												cuttle-fish, to which, indeed, in certain external respects it would
																																																																																												seem to belong, but only as the Anak of the tribe.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 60. The Line.

																																																																																												With reference to the whaling scene shortly to be described, as well as
																																																																																												for the better understanding of all similar scenes elsewhere presented,
																																																																																												I have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible whale-line.

																																																																																												The line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp, slightly
																																																																																												vapored with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the case of ordinary
																																																																																												ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp more pliable
																																																																																												to the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more convenient to
																																																																																												the sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary
																																																																																												quantity too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which
																																																																																												it must be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar in
																																																																																												general by no means adds to the rope’s durability or strength, however
																																																																																												much it may give it compactness and gloss.

																																																																																												Of late years the Manilla rope has in the American fishery almost
																																																																																												entirely superseded hemp as a material for whale-lines; for, though not
																																																																																												so durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far more soft and elastic; and
																																																																																												I will add (since there is an æsthetics in all things), is much more
																																																																																												handsome and becoming to the boat, than hemp. Hemp is a dusky, dark
																																																																																												fellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired Circassian
																																																																																												to behold.

																																																																																												The whale-line is only two-thirds of an inch in thickness. At first
																																																																																												sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is. By experiment
																																																																																												its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one hundred and
																																																																																												twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a str safety’s sake; for were the
																																																																																												lower end of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were the
																																																																																												whale then to run the line out to the end almost in a single, smoking
																																																																																												minute as he sometimes does, he would not stop there, for the doomed
																																																																																												boat would infallibly be dragged down after him into the profundity of
																																																																																												the sea; and in that case no town-crier would ever find her again.

																																																																																												Before lowering the boat for the chase, the upper end of the line is
																																																																																												taken aft from the tub, and passing round the loggerhead there, is
																																																																																												again carried forward the entire length of the boat, resting crosswise
																																																																																												upon the loom or handle of every man’s oar, so that it jogs against his
																																																																																												wrist in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they alternately
																																																																																												sit at the opposite gunwales, to the leaded chocks or grooves in the
																																																																																												extreme pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size
																																																																																												of a common quill, prevents it from slipping out. From the chocks it
																																																																																												hangs in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the
																																																																																												boat again; and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being
																																																																																												coiled upon the box in the bows, it continues its way to the gunwale
																																																																																												still a little further aft, and is then attached to the short-warp—the
																																																																																												rope which is immediately connected with the harpoon; but previous to
																																																																																												that connexion, the short-walent, subtle, ever-present perils of life.
																																																																																												And if you be a philosopher, though seated in the whale-boat, you would
																																																																																												not at heart feel one whit more of terror, than though seated before
																																																																																												your evening fire with a poker, and not a harpoon, by your side.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 61. Stubb Kills a Whale.

																																																																																												If to Starbuck the apparition of the Squid was a thing of portents, to
																																																																																												Queequeg it was quite a different object.

																																																																																												“When you see him ’quid,” said the savage, honing his harpoon in the
																																																																																												bow of his hoisted boat, “then you quick see him ’parm whale.”

																																																																																												The next day was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special
																																																																																												to engage them, the Pequod’s crew could hardly resist the spell of
																																																																																												sleep induced by such a vacant sea. For this part of the Indian Ocean
																																																																																												through which we then were voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively
																																																																																												ground; that is, it affords fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins,
																																																																																												flying-fish, and other vivacious denizens of more stirring waters, than
																																																																																												those off the Rio de la Plata, or the in-shore ground off Peru.

																																																																																												It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and with my shoulders
																																																																																												leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and fro I idly swayed
																																																																																												in what seemed an enchanted air. No resolution could withstand it; in
																																																																																												that dre of cautiousness was therefore
																																																																																												no longer of use. Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into play.
																																																																																												And still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the
																																																																																												assault.

																																																																																												Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish. All alive to his jeopardy,
																																																																																												he was going “head out”; that part obliquely projecting from the mad
																																																																																												yeast which he brewed.*

																																																																																												*It will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance the
																																																																																												entire interior of the sperm whale’s enormous head consists. Though
																																																																																												apparently the most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about
																																																																																												him. So that with ease he elevates it in the air, and invariably does
																																																																																												so when going at his utmost speed. Besides, such is the breadth of the
																																																																																												upper part of the front of his head, and such the tapering cut-water
																																																																																												formation of the lower part, that by obliquely elevating his head, he
																																																																																												thereby may be said to transform himself from a bluff-bowed sluggish
																																																																																												galliot into a sharppointed New York pilot-boat.

																																																																																												“Start her, start her, my men! Don’t hurry yourselves; take plenty of
																																																																																												time—but start her; start her like thunder-claps, that’s all,” cried
																																																																																												Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he spoke. “Start her, now; give ’em
																																																																																												the long and strong stroke, Tashtego. Start her, Tash, my boy—start
																																																																																												her, all; but keep cool, keep cool—cucumbers is the word—easy,
																																																																																												easy—only start her like grim death and grinning devils, and raise the
																																																																																												buried dead perpendicular out of their graves, boys—that’s all. Start
																																																																																												her!”

																																																																																												“Woo-hoo! Wa-hee!” screamed the Gay-Header in reply, raising some old
																																																																																												war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the st bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy
																																																																																												in her wake; and, at the slightest motion from within, even but of a
																																																																																												little finger, the vibrating, cracking craft canted over her spasmodic
																																																																																												gunwale into the sea. Thus they rushed; each man with might and main
																																																																																												clinging to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the foam; and the tall
																																																																																												form of Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost double, in order
																																																																																												to bring down his centre of gravity. Whole Atlantics and Pacifics
																																																																																												seemed passed as they shot on their way, till at length the whale
																																																																																												somewhat slackened his flight.

																																																																																												“Haul in—haul in!” cried Stubb to the bowsman! and, facing round
																																																																																												towards the whale, all hands began pulling the boat up to him, while
																																																																																												yet the boat was being towed on. Soon ranging up by his flank, Stubb,
																																																																																												firmly planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart after dart
																																																																																												into the flying fish; at the word of command, the boat alternately
																																																																																												sterning out of the way of the whale’s horrible wallow, and then
																																																																																												ranging up for another fling.

																																																																																												The red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks down
																																																																																												a hill. His tormented body rolled not in brine but in blood, which
																																																																																												bubbled and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake. The
																																																																																												top of one’s compass, while all the other muscles are strained and half
																																																																																												started—what that is none know but those who have tried it. For one, I
																																																																																												cannot bawl very heartily and work very recklessly at one and the same
																																																																																												time. In this straining, bawling state, then, with his back to the
																																																																																												fish, all at once the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting
																																																																																												cry—“Stand up, and give it to him!” He now has to drop and secure his
																																																																																												oar, turn round on his centre half way, seize his harpoon from the
																																																																																												crotch, and with what little strength may remain, he essays to pitch it
																																																																																												somehow into the whale. No wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemen
																																																																																												in a body, that out of fifty fair chances for a dart, not five are
																																																																																												successful; no wonder that so many hapless harpooneers are madly cursed
																																																																																												and disrated; no wonder that some of them actually burst their
																																																																																												blood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that some sperm whalemen are
																																																																																												absent four years with four barrels; no wonder that to many ship
																																																																																												owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the harpooneer that
																																																																																												makes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his body how can
																																																																																												you expect to find it there when most wanted!

																																																																																												Again, if the dart be successful, then at the second critical instant,
																																																																																												that is, when the whale starts to run, the boatheader and harpooneer
																																																																																												likewise start to ruways unattended
																																																																																												with the saddest and most fatal casualties.

																																																																																												Furthermore: you must know that when the second iron is thrown
																																																																																												overboard, it thenceforth becomes a dangling, sharp-edged terror,
																																																																																												skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines,
																																																																																												or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.
																																																																																												Nor, in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is
																																																																																												fairly captured and a corpse.

																																																																																												Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats all engaging
																																																																																												one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to these
																																																																																												qualities in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of
																																																																																												such an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be
																																																																																												simultaneously dangling about him. For, of course, each boat is
																																																																																												supplied with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first
																																																																																												one be ineffectually darted without recovery. All these particulars are
																																																																																												faithfully narrated here, as they will not fail to elucidate several
																																																																																												most important, however intricate passages, in scenes hereafter to be
																																																																																												painted.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 64. Stubb’s Supper.

																																																																																												Stubb’s whale had been killed some distance from the ship. It was a
																																																																																												calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats, we commenced the slow
																																																																																												business of towing the trophy to the Pequod. And now, as we eighteen
																																																																																												men with our thirtyhain is readily
																																																																																												made to follow suit; and being slipped along the body, is at last
																																																																																												locked fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the point of
																																																																																												junction with its broad flukes or lobes.

																																																																																												If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at least so far as could be known
																																																																																												on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with conquest, betrayed an
																																																																																												unusual but still good-natured excitement. Such an unwonted bustle was
																																																																																												he in that the staid Starbuck, his official superior, quietly resigned
																																																																																												to him for the time the sole management of affairs. One small, helping
																																																																																												cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was soon made strangely
																																																																																												manifest. Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat intemperately fond of
																																																																																												the whale as a flavorish thing to his palate.

																																																																																												“A steak, a steak, ere I sleep! You, Daggoo! overboard you go, and cut
																																																																																												me one from his small!”

																																																																																												Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a general
																																																																																												thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy defray
																																																																																												the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the proceeds
																																																																																												of the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers
																																																																																												who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale
																																																																																												designated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.

																																																																																												About midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two
																																																																																												lanter to form a more secure base for his supper;
																																																																																												and, at the same time darting his fork into the dish, as if stabbing
																																																																																												with his lance; “cook, you cook!—sail this way, cook!”

																																																																																												The old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously
																																																																																												roused from his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came
																																																																																												shambling along from his galley, for, like many old blacks, there was
																																																																																												something the matter with his knee-pans, which he did not keep well
																																																																																												scoured like his other pans; this old Fleece, as they called him, came
																																																																																												shuffling and limping along, assisting his step with his tongs, which,
																																																																																												after a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened iron hoops; this old
																																																																																												Ebony floundered along, and in obedience to the word of command, came
																																																																																												to a dead stop on the opposite side of Stubb’s sideboard; when, with
																																																																																												both hands folded before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he
																																																																																												bowed his arched back still further over, at the same time sideways
																																																																																												inclining his head, so as to bring his best ear into play.

																																																																																												“Cook,” said Stubb, rapidly lifting a rather reddish morsel to his
																																																																																												mouth, “don’t you think this steak is rather overdone? You’ve been
																																																																																												beating this steak too much, cook; it’s too tender. Don’t I always say
																																																																																												that to be good, a whale- on.”

																																																																																												“No use goin’ on; de dam willains will keep a scougin’ and slappin’
																																																																																												each oder, Massa Stubb; dey don’t hear one word; no use a-preachin’ to
																																																																																												such dam g’uttons as you call ’em, till dare bellies is full, and dare
																																																																																												bellies is bottomless; and when dey do get ’em full, dey wont hear you
																																																																																												den; for den dey sink in de sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
																																																																																												can’t hear not’ing at all, no more, for eber and eber.”

																																																																																												“Upon my soul, I am about of the same opinion; so give the benediction,
																																																																																												Fleece, and I’ll away to my supper.”

																																																																																												Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised his
																																																																																												shrill voice, and cried—

																																																																																												“Cussed fellow-critters! Kick up de damndest row as ever you can; fill
																																																																																												your dam’ bellies ’till dey bust—and den die.”

																																																																																												“Now, cook,” said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; “stand
																																																																																												just where you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular
																																																																																												attention.”

																																																																																												“All dention,” said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the
																																																																																												desired position.

																																																																																												“Well,” said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; “I shall now go
																																																																																												back to the subject of this steak. In the first place, how old are you,
																																																																																												cook?”

																																																																																												âongs, cook, and hear my orders. Do ye
																																																																																												hear? Hold your hat in one hand, and clap t’other a’top of your heart,
																																																																																												when I’m giving my orders, cook. What! that your heart, there?—that’s
																																																																																												your gizzard! Aloft! aloft!—that’s it—now you have it. Hold it there
																																																																																												now, and pay attention.”

																																																																																												“All ’dention,” said the old black, with both hands placed as desired,
																																																																																												vainly wriggling his grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at
																																																																																												one and the same time.

																																																																																												“Well then, cook, you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad,
																																																																																												that I have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that,
																																																																																												don’t you? Well, for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for
																																																																																												my private table here, the capstan, I’ll tell you what to do so as not
																																																																																												to spoil it by overdoing. Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live
																																																																																												coal to it with the other; that done, dish it; d’ye hear? And now
																																																																																												to-morrow, cook, when we are cutting in the fish, be sure you stand by
																																																																																												to get the tips of his fins; have them put in pickle. As for the ends
																																																																																												of the flukes, have them soused, cook. There, now ye may go.”

																																																																																												But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.

																																																																																												“Cook, give me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.
																																																																																												D’ye hear? away you sail, then.—Halloa! stop! maketh of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for
																																																																																												butter. Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into
																																																																																												some other substance, and then partaking of it. In the long try watches
																																																																																												of the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their
																																																																																												ship-biscuit into the huge oil-pots and let them fry there awhile. Many
																																																																																												a good supper have I thus made.

																																																																																												In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine
																																																																																												dish. The casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two
																																																																																												plump, whitish lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large
																																																																																												puddings), they are then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most
																																																																																												delectable mess, in flavor somewhat resembling calves’ head, which is
																																																																																												quite a dish among some epicures; and every one knows that some young
																																																																																												bucks among the epicures, by continually dining upon calves’ brains, by
																																																																																												and by get to have a little brains of their own, so as to be able to
																																																																																												tell a calf’s head from their own heads; which, indeed, requires
																																																																																												uncommon discrimination. And that is the reason why a young buck with
																																																																																												an intelligent looking calf’s head before him, is somehow one of the
																																																																																												saddest sights you can see. The head looks a sort of reproachfully at
																																																																																												him, with an “Et tu Brute!” expression.

																																																																																												It is not, perhaps, entirely because the whale is so excessively
																																																																																												unctuous that landsmen seem to regard the eating of him wsiderably
																																																																																												diminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades, a
																																																																																												procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to
																																																																																												tickle them into still greater activity. But it was not thus in the
																																																																																												present case with the Pequod’s sharks; though, to be sure, any man
																																																																																												unaccustomed to such sights, to have looked over her side that night,
																																																																																												would have almost thought the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and
																																																																																												those sharks the maggots in it.

																																																																																												Nevertheless, upon Stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper was
																																																																																												concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman came
																																																																																												on deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for
																																																																																												immediately suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering
																																																																																												three lanterns, so that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid
																																																																																												sea, these two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an
																																																																																												incessant murdering of the sharks,* by striking the keen steel deep
																																																																																												into their skulls, seemingly their only vital part. But in the foamy
																																																																																												confusion of their mixed and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not
																																																																																												always hit their mark; and this brought about new revelations of the
																																																																																												incredible ferocity of the foe. They viciously snapped, not only at
																																																																																												each other’s disembowelments, but like flexible bows, bent round, and
																																																																																												bit their own; till thosee of the windlass is answered by a
																																																																																												helping heave from the billows; till at last, a swift, startling snap
																																																																																												is heard; with a great swash the ship rolls upwards and backwards from
																																																																																												the whale, and the triumphant tackle rises into sight dragging after it
																																																																																												the disengaged semicircular end of the first strip of blubber. Now as
																																																																																												the blubber envelopes the whale precisely as the rind does an orange,
																																																																																												so is it stripped off from the body precisely as an orange is sometimes
																																																																																												stripped by spiralizing it. For the strain constantly kept up by the
																																																																																												windlass continually keeps the whale rolling over and over in the
																																																																																												water, and as the blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along the
																																																																																												line called the “scarf,” simultaneously cut by the spades of Starbuck
																																																																																												and Stubb, the mates; and just as fast as it is thus peeled off, and
																																																																																												indeed by that very act itself, it is all the time being hoisted higher
																																																																																												and higher aloft till its upper end grazes the main-top; the men at the
																																																																																												windlass then cease heaving, and for a moment or two the prodigious
																																																																																												blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let down from the sky, and
																																																																																												every one present must take good heed to dodge it when it swings, else
																																																																																												it may box his ears and pitch him headlong overboard.

																																																																																												One of the attending harpooneers now advaased myself with fancying it exerted a
																																																																																												magnifying influence. At any rate, it is pleasant to read about whales
																																																																																												through their own spectacles, as you may say. But what I am driving at
																																																																																												here is this. That same infinitely thin, isinglass substance, which, I
																																																																																												admit, invests the entire body of the whale, is not so much to be
																																																																																												regarded as the skin of the creature, as the skin of the skin, so to
																																																																																												speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say, that the proper skin of
																																																																																												the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender than the skin of a
																																																																																												new-born child. But no more of this.

																																																																																												Assuming the blubber to be the skin of the whale; then, when this skin,
																																																																																												as in the case of a very large Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one
																																																																																												hundred barrels of oil; and, when it is considered that, in quantity,
																																																																																												or rather weight, that oil, in its expressed state, is only three
																																																																																												fourths, and not the entire substance of the coat; some idea may hence
																																																																																												be had of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part of whose
																																																																																												mere integument yields such a lake of liquid as that. Reckoning ten
																																																																																												barrels to the ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three
																																																																																												quarters of the stuff of the whale’s skin.

																																																																																												In life, the visible surfaceow wonderful is it then—except after
																																																																																												explanation—that this great monster, to whom corporeal warmth is as
																																																																																												indispensable as it is to man; how wonderful that he should be found at
																																																																																												home, immersed to his lips for life in those Arctic waters! where, when
																																																																																												seamen fall overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards,
																																																																																												perpendicularly frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is
																																																																																												found glued in amber. But more surprising is it to know, as has been
																																																																																												proved by experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than
																																																																																												that of a Borneo negro in summer.

																																																																																												It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a strong
																																																																																												individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare
																																																																																												virtue of interior spaciousness. Oh, man! admire and model thyself
																																																																																												after the whale! Do thou, too, remain warm among ice. Do thou, too,
																																																																																												live in this world without being of it. Be cool at the equator; keep
																																																																																												thy blood fluid at the Pole. Like the great dome of St. Peter’s, and
																																																																																												like the great whale, retain, O man! in all seasons a temperature of
																																																																																												thine own.

																																																																																												But how easy and how hopeless to teach these fine things! Of erections,
																																																																																												how few are domed like St. Peter’s! of creatures, how few veck;
																																																																																												on the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that
																																																																																												very place, is the thickest part of him. Remember, also, that the
																																																																																												surgeon must operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening
																																																																																												between him and his subject, and that subject almost hidden in a
																																																																																												discoloured, rolling, and oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea. Bear
																																																																																												in mind, too, that under these untoward circumstances he has to cut
																																																																																												many feet deep in the flesh; and in that subterraneous manner, without
																																																																																												so much as getting one single peep into the ever-contracting gash thus
																																																																																												made, he must skilfully steer clear of all adjacent, interdicted parts,
																																																																																												and exactly divide the spine at a critical point hard by its insertion
																																																																																												into the skull. Do you not marvel, then, at Stubb’s boast, that he
																																																																																												demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm whale?

																																																																																												When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a
																																																																																												cable till the body is stripped. That done, if it belong to a small
																																																																																												whale it is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of. But, with a
																																																																																												full grown leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale’s head
																																																																																												embraces nearly one third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend
																																																																																												such a burden as that, even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this
																																																																																												were as vain a thing as to attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers’
																																																																																												scales.

																																																																																												The Pequod’s whale being decapitated and the body stripped, the head
																																																																																												was hoisted against the ship’s side—about half way out of the sea, so
																																																																																												that it might yet in great part be buvoice from the main-mast-head.

																																																																																												“Aye? Well, now, that’s cheering,” cried Ahab, suddenly erecting
																																																																																												himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow. “That
																																																																																												lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better
																																																																																												man.—Where away?”

																																																																																												“Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her breeze
																																																																																												to us!

																																																																																												“Better and better, man. Would now St. Paul would come along that way,
																																																																																												and to my breezelessness bring his breeze! O Nature, and O soul of man!
																																																																																												how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies! not the
																																																																																												smallest atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate
																																																																																												in mind.”


																																																																																												CHAPTER 71. The Jeroboam’s Story.

																																																																																												Hand in hand, ship and breeze blew on; but the breeze came faster than
																																																																																												the ship, and soon the Pequod began to rock.

																																																																																												By and by, through the glass the stranger’s boats and manned mast-heads
																																																																																												proved her a whale-ship. But as she was so far to windward, and
																																																																																												shooting by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the
																																																																																												Pequod could not hope to reach her. So the signal was set to see what
																																																																																												response would be made.

																																																																																												Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the ships
																																																																																												of the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which
																																																																																												signals being collected in a book with the names of the respective
																																																																																												vessels attached, every captain is provided with it. Thereby, the whale
																																																																																												coy nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna
																																																																																												Shakers, where he had been a great prophet; in their cracked, secret
																																																																																												meetings having several times descended from heaven by the way of a
																																																																																												trap-door, announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial, which he
																																																																																												carried in his vest-pocket; but, which, instead of containing
																																																																																												gunpowder, was supposed to be charged with laudanum. A strange,
																																																																																												apostolic whim having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for Nantucket,
																																																																																												where, with that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a steady,
																																																																																												common-sense exterior, and offered himself as a green-hand candidate
																																																																																												for the Jeroboam’s whaling voyage. They engaged him; but straightway
																																																																																												upon the ship’s getting out of sight of land, his insanity broke out in
																																																																																												a freshet. He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and commanded
																																																																																												the captain to jump overboard. He published his manifesto, whereby he
																																																																																												set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and
																																																																																												vicar-general of all Oceanica. The unflinching earnestness with which
																																																																																												he declared these things;—the dark, daring play of his sleepless,
																																																																																												excited imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real
																																																																																												delirium, united to invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of
																																																																																												the ignorant crew, with an atmosphere of sacredness. Moreover, they
																																																																																												were afraid of him. As such a man, however, was not of much practical
																																																																																												use in the ship, especially as he refused to work except when he
																																																																																												pleased, the incredulous captain would fain have been rid of him; but
																																																																																												apprised that that tioned, and the crazy sea that seemed
																																																																																												leagued with him.

																																																																																												It seemed that the Jeroboam had not long left home, when upon speaking
																																																																																												a whale-ship, her people were reliably apprised of the existence of
																																																																																												Moby Dick, and the havoc he had made. Greedily sucking in this
																																																																																												intelligence, Gabriel solemnly warned the captain against attacking the
																																																																																												White Whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his gibbering
																																																																																												insanity, pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the
																																																																																												Shaker God incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible. But when, some
																																																																																												year or two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the
																																																																																												mast-heads, Macey, the chief mate, burned with ardour to encounter him;
																																																																																												and the captain himself being not unwilling to let him have the
																																																																																												opportunity, despite all the archangel’s denunciations and
																																																																																												forewarnings, Macey succeeded in persuading five men to man his boat.
																																																																																												With them he pushed off; and, after much weary pulling, and many
																																																																																												perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last succeeded in getting one iron
																																																																																												fast. Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the main-royal mast-head, was
																																																																																												tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling forth prophecies of
																																																																																												speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his divinity. Now, while
																																																																																												Macey, the mate, was standing up in his boat’s bow, and with all the
																																																																																												reckless energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations upon the
																																																																																												whale, and essaying to get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo! a
																																																																																												broad white shadow rose from the sea; by its quick, fanning motion,
																																																																																												temporarily takine cabin. Of such a
																																																																																												letter, Death himself might well have been the post-boy.

																																																																																												“Can’st not read it?” cried Ahab. “Give it me, man. Aye, aye, it’s but
																																																																																												a dim scrawl;—what’s this?” As he was studying it out, Starbuck took a
																																																																																												long cutting-spade pole, and with his knife slightly split the end, to
																																																																																												insert the letter there, and in that way, hand it to the boat, without
																																																																																												its coming any closer to the ship.

																																																																																												Meantime, Ahab holding the letter, muttered, “Mr. Har—yes, Mr. Harry—(a
																																																																																												woman’s pinny hand,—the man’s wife, I’ll wager)—Aye—Mr. Harry Macey,
																																																																																												Ship Jeroboam;—why it’s Macey, and he’s dead!”

																																																																																												“Poor fellow! poor fellow! and from his wife,” sighed Mayhew; “but let
																																																																																												me have it.”

																																																																																												“Nay, keep it thyself,” cried Gabriel to Ahab; “thou art soon going
																																																																																												that way.”

																																																																																												“Curses throttle thee!” yelled Ahab. “Captain Mayhew, stand by now to
																																																																																												receive it”; and taking the fatal missive from Starbuck’s hands, he
																																																																																												caught it in the slit of the pole, and reached it over towards the
																																																																																												boat. But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing;
																																																																																												the boat drifted a little towards the ship’s stern; so that, as if by
																																																																																												magic, the letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel’s eager hand. He
																																																																																												clutched it ing the cord, it should
																																																																																												drag me down in his wake. So, then, an elongated Siamese ligature
																																																																																												united us. Queequeg was my own inseparable twin brother; nor could I
																																																																																												any way get rid of the dangerous liabilities which the hempen bond
																																																																																												entailed.

																																																																																												So strongly and metaphysically did I conceive of my situation then,
																																																																																												that while earnestly watching his motions, I seemed distinctly to
																																																																																												perceive that my own individuality was now merged in a joint stock
																																																																																												company of two; that my free will had received a mortal wound; and that
																																																																																												another’s mistake or misfortune might plunge innocent me into unmerited
																																																																																												disaster and death. Therefore, I saw that here was a sort of
																																																																																												interregnum in Providence; for its even-handed equity never could have
																																																																																												so gross an injustice. And yet still further pondering—while I jerked
																																																																																												him now and then from between the whale and ship, which would threaten
																																																																																												to jam him—still further pondering, I say, I saw that this situation of
																																																																																												mine was the precise situation of every mortal that breathes; only, in
																																																																																												most cases, he, one way or other, has this Siamese connexion with a
																																																																																												plurality of other mortals. If your banker breaks, you snap; if your
																																																																																												apothecary by mistake sends you poison in your pills, you die. True,
																																																																																												you may say that, by exceeding caution, you may possibly escape these
																																																																																												and the multitudinous other evil chances of life. But handle Queequeg’s
																																																																																												monkey-rope heedfully as I would, sometimes he jerked it so, that I
																																																																																												came very near sliding overboard. Nor could I possibly forget that, do
																																																																																												what I would, I only had the management of one end of it.*

																																																																																												*The monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in the Pequod
																																																																																												that the monkey and his holder were ever tied together. This
																																																																																												improvement upon the original usage was introduced by no less a man
																																																																																												tha a sad pickle and peril, poor lad.

																																																																																												But courage! there is good cheer in store for you, Queequeg. For now,
																																																																																												as with blue lips and blood-shot eyes the exhausted savage at last
																																																																																												climbs up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily
																																																																																												trembling over the side; the steward advances, and with a benevolent,
																																																																																												consolatory glance hands him—what? Some hot Cognac? No! hands him, ye
																																																																																												gods! hands him a cup of tepid ginger and water!

																																																																																												“Ginger? Do I smell ginger?” suspiciously asked Stubb, coming near.
																																																																																												“Yes, this must be ginger,” peering into the as yet untasted cup. Then
																																																																																												standing as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards the
																																																																																												astonished steward slowly saying, “Ginger? ginger? and will you have
																																																																																												the goodness to tell me, Mr. Dough-Boy, where lies the virtue of
																																																																																												ginger? Ginger! is ginger the sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, to
																																																																																												kindle a fire in this shivering cannibal? Ginger!—what the devil is
																																																																																												ginger? Sea-coal? firewood?—lucifer matches?—tinder?—gunpowder?—what
																																																																																												the devil is ginger, I say, that you offer this cup to our poor
																																																																																												Queequeg here.”

																																																																																												“There is some sneaking Temperance Society movement about this
																																																																																												business,” he suddenly addsk’s, were detached in pursuit. Pulling further
																																																																																												and further away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at
																																																																																												the mast-head. But suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of
																																																																																												tumultuous white water, and soon after news came from aloft that one or
																																																																																												both the boats must be fast. An interval passed and the boats were in
																																																																																												plain sight, in the act of being dragged right towards the ship by the
																																																																																												towing whale. So close did the monster come to the hull, that at first
																																																																																												it seemed as if he meant it malice; but suddenly going down in a
																																																																																												maelstrom, within three rods of the planks, he wholly disappeared from
																																																																																												view, as if diving under the keel. “Cut, cut!” was the cry from the
																																																																																												ship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the point of being
																																																																																												brought with a deadly dash against the vessel’s side. But having plenty
																																																																																												of line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very rapidly, they
																																																																																												paid out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with all their
																																																																																												might so as to get ahead of the ship. For a few minutes the struggle
																																																																																												was intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the tightened
																																																																																												line in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, the
																																																																																												contending stre hasn’t got any hammock; but I’ve
																																																																																												seen him lay of nights in a coil of rigging.”

																																																																																												“No doubt, and it’s because of his cursed tail; he coils it down, do ye
																																																																																												see, in the eye of the rigging.”

																																																																																												“What’s the old man have so much to do with him for?”

																																																																																												“Striking up a swap or a bargain, I suppose.”

																																																																																												“Bargain?—about what?”

																																																																																												“Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent after that White Whale, and
																																																																																												the devil there is trying to come round him, and get him to swap away
																																																																																												his silver watch, or his soul, or something of that sort, and then
																																																																																												he’ll surrender Moby Dick.”

																																																																																												“Pooh! Stubb, you are skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?”

																																																																																												“I don’t know, Flask, but the devil is a curious chap, and a wicked
																																																																																												one, I tell ye. Why, they say as how he went a sauntering into the old
																																																																																												flag-ship once, switching his tail about devilish easy and
																																																																																												gentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at home. Well, he
																																																																																												was at home, and asked the devil what he wanted. The devil, switching
																																																																																												his hoofs, up and says, ‘I want John.’ ‘What for?’ says the old
																																																																																												governor. ‘What business is that of yours,’ says the devil, getting
																																																																																												mad,—‘I want to use him.’ ‘Take him,’ says the governor—and by the
																																																																																												Lord, Flask, if the devil didn’t give John the Asiatic cholera before
																																																																																												he got through with him, Iâeelzebub, you don’t do it; and if he makes any fuss, by the Lord
																																																																																												I’ll make a grab into his pocket for his tail, take it to the capstan,
																																																																																												and give him such a wrenching and heaving, that his tail will come
																																																																																												short off at the stump—do you see; and then, I rather guess when he
																																																																																												finds himself docked in that queer fashion, he’ll sneak off without the
																																																																																												poor satisfaction of feeling his tail between his legs.”

																																																																																												“And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?”

																																																																																												“Do with it? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home;—what else?”

																																																																																												“Now, do you mean what you say, and have been saying all along, Stubb?”

																																																																																												“Mean or not mean, here we are at the ship.”

																																																																																												The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard side,
																																																																																												where fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for
																																																																																												securing him.

																																																																																												“Didn’t I tell you so?” said Flask; “yes, you’ll soon see this right
																																																																																												whale’s head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti’s.”

																																																																																												In good time, Flask’s saying proved true. As before, the Pequod steeply
																																																																																												leaned over towards the sperm whale’s head, now, by the counterpoise of
																																																																																												both heads, she regained her even keel; though sorely strained, you may
																																																																																												well believe. So, when on one side you hoirch, you will at last see a lashless eye, which you would
																																																																																												fancy to be a young colt’s eye; so out of all proportion is it to the
																																																																																												magnitude of the head.

																																																																																												Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the whale’s eyes, it is
																																																																																												plain that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead, no more
																																																																																												than he can one exactly astern. In a word, the position of the whale’s
																																																																																												eyes corresponds to that of a man’s ears; and you may fancy, for
																																																																																												yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects
																																																																																												through your ears. You would find that you could only command some
																																																																																												thirty degrees of vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight;
																																																																																												and about thirty more behind it. If your bitterest foe were walking
																																																																																												straight towards you, with dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not
																																																																																												be able to see him, any more than if he were stealing upon you from
																																																																																												behind. In a word, you would have two backs, so to speak; but, at the
																																																																																												same time, also, two fronts (side fronts): for what is it that makes
																																																																																												the front of a man—what, indeed, but his eyes?

																																																																																												Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes
																																																																																												are so planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to
																																																																																												producand never discover that organ. The ear has no external leaf
																																																																																												whatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so
																																																																																												wondrously minute is it. It is lodged a little behind the eye. With
																																																																																												respect to their ears, this important difference is to be observed
																																																																																												between the sperm whale and the right. While the ear of the former has
																																																																																												an external opening, that of the latter is entirely and evenly covered
																																																																																												over with a membrane, so as to be quite imperceptible from without.

																																																																																												Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the whale should see the
																																																																																												world through so small an eye, and hear the thunder through an ear
																																																																																												which is smaller than a hare’s? But if his eyes were broad as the lens
																																																																																												of Herschel’s great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches of
																																																																																												cathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of
																																																																																												hearing? Not at all.—Why then do you try to “enlarge” your mind?
																																																																																												Subtilize it.

																																																																																												Let us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cant
																																																																																												over the sperm whale’s head, that it may lie bottom up; then, ascending
																																																																																												by a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it not
																																																																																												that the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we
																																																																																												might descend into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach. But
																																																																																												let us hold on here by this tooth, and look r to this great head it begins to assume different
																																																																																												aspects, according to your point of view. If you stand on its summit
																																																																																												and look at these two F-shaped spoutholes, you would take the whole
																																																																																												head for an enormous bass-viol, and these spiracles, the apertures in
																																																																																												its sounding-board. Then, again, if you fix your eye upon this strange,
																																																																																												crested, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass—this green,
																																																																																												barnacled thing, which the Greenlanders call the “crown,” and the
																																																																																												Southern fishers the “bonnet” of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes
																																																																																												solely on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak,
																																																																																												with a bird’s nest in its crotch. At any rate, when you watch those
																																																																																												live crabs that nestle here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost
																																																																																												sure to occur to you; unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the
																																																																																												technical term “crown” also bestowed upon it; in which case you will
																																																																																												take great interest in thinking how this mighty monster is actually a
																																																																																												diademed king of the sea, whose green crown has been put together for
																																																																																												him in this marvellous manner. But if this whale be a king, he is a
																																																																																												very sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem. Look at that hanging lower
																																																																																												lip! what a huge sulk and pout is there! a sulk and pout, by
																																																																																												carpenter’s measurement, about twenty feet long and five feet deep; a
																																																																																												sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more.

																																																																																												A great pity, now, that this unfortunate whale shou, with the like thoughtlessness, do we
																																																																																												nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the umbrella being a
																																																																																												tent spread over the same bone.

																																																																																												But now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment, and,
																																																																																												standing in the Right Whale’s mouth, look around you afresh. Seeing all
																																																																																												these colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about, would you not
																																																																																												think you were inside of the great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon its
																																																																																												thousand pipes? For a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest
																																																																																												Turkey—the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of the
																																																																																												mouth. It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting
																																																																																												it on deck. This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I
																																																																																												should say it was a six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about that
																																																																																												amount of oil.

																																																																																												Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I started
																																																																																												with—that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely
																																																																																												different heads. To sum up, then: in the Right Whale’s there is no
																																																																																												great well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible
																																																																																												of a lower jaw, like the Sperm Whale’s. Nor in the Sperm Whale are
																																																																																												there any of those blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely
																																																																																												anything of a tongue. Again, the Right Whale has two external
																																																																																												spout-holes, the Sperm Whale only one.

																																																																																												Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet
																																																																																												lie together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other
																																																																																												will not be very long in following.

																																																																																												Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale’s there? It is the same
																																																																																												he died wmpregnably invests all that
																																																																																												apparent effeminacy. In some previous place I have described to you how
																																																																																												the blubber wraps the body of the whale, as the rind wraps an orange.
																																																																																												Just so with the head; but with this difference: about the head this
																																																																																												envelope, though not so thick, is of a boneless toughness, inestimable
																																																																																												by any man who has not handled it. The severest pointed harpoon, the
																																																																																												sharpest lance darted by the strongest human arm, impotently rebounds
																																																																																												from it. It is as though the forehead of the Sperm Whale were paved
																																																																																												with horses’ hoofs. I do not think that any sensation lurks in it.

																																																																																												Bethink yourself also of another thing. When two large, loaded Indiamen
																																																																																												chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do the
																																																																																												sailors do? They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming
																																																																																												contact, any merely hard substance, like iron or wood. No, they hold
																																																																																												there a large, round wad of tow and cork, enveloped in the thickest and
																																																																																												toughest of ox-hide. That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which
																																																																																												would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow-bars. By
																																																																																												itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at. But
																																																																																												supplementary to this, it has hypothetically occurred to me, that as
																																																																																												ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them,
																																																																																												capable, at will, of distension or contrart, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb of
																																																																																												oil, formed by the crossing and recrossing, into ten thousand
																																																																																												infiltrated cells, of tough elastic white fibres throughout its whole
																																																																																												extent. The upper part, known as the Case, may be regarded as the great
																																																																																												Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale. And as that famous great tierce is
																																																																																												mystically carved in front, so the whale’s vast plaited forehead forms
																																																																																												innumerable strange devices for the emblematical adornment of his
																																																																																												wondrous tun. Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always replenished
																																																																																												with the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so the tun
																																																																																												of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily
																																																																																												vintages; namely, the highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure,
																																																																																												limpid, and odoriferous state. Nor is this precious substance found
																																																																																												unalloyed in any other part of the creature. Though in life it remains
																																																																																												perfectly fluid, yet, upon exposure to the air, after death, it soon
																																																																																												begins to concrete; sending forth beautiful crystalline shoots, as when
																																																																																												the first thin delicate ice is just forming in water. A large whale’s
																																																																																												case generally yields about five hundred gallons of sperm, though from
																																																																																												unavoidable circumstances, considerable of it is spilled, leaks, and
																																																																																												dribbles away, or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the ticklish
																																																																																												business of securing wds. These last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the
																																																																																												Indian, to whom another person has reached up a very long pole.
																																																																																												Inserting this pole into the bucket, Tashtego downward guides the
																																																																																												bucket into the Tun, till it entirely disappears; then giving the word
																																																																																												to the seamen at the whip, up comes the bucket again, all bubbling like
																																																																																												a dairy-maid’s pail of new milk. Carefully lowered from its height, the
																																																																																												full-freighted vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly
																																																																																												emptied into a large tub. Then remounting aloft, it again goes through
																																																																																												the same round until the deep cistern will yield no more. Towards the
																																																																																												end, Tashtego has to ram his long pole harder and harder, and deeper
																																																																																												and deeper into the Tun, until some twenty feet of the pole have gone
																																																																																												down.

																																																																																												Now, the people of the Pequod had been baling some time in this way;
																																																																																												several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all at once
																																																																																												a queer accident happened. Whether it was that Tashtego, that wild
																																																																																												Indian, was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his
																																																																																												one-handed hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; or
																																																																																												whether the place where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or
																																																																																												whether the Evil One himself would have it to fall out so, without
																																																																																												stating his particular reasons; how it was exactly, there is no telling
																																																																																												now; but, on a sudden, as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came
																																																																																												suckingly up—my God! poor Tashtego—like the twin reciprocating bucket
																																																																																												in a veritable well, dropped head-foremost down into this great Tun of
																																																																																												Heidelburgh, and with a horrible oily gurgling, went clean out of
																																																																																												sight!

																																																																																												“Man overboard!” cried Daggoo, who amihe next, a loud splash announced that my
																																																																																												brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue. One packed rush was made to the
																																																																																												side, and every eye counted every ripple, as moment followed moment,
																																																																																												and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen. Some hands
																																																																																												now jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed a little off from the
																																																																																												ship.

																																																																																												“Ha! ha!” cried Daggoo, all at once, from his now quiet, swinging perch
																																																																																												overhead; and looking further off from the side, we saw an arm thrust
																																																																																												upright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as an arm thrust
																																																																																												forth from the grass over a grave.

																																																																																												“Both! both!—it is both!”—cried Daggoo again with a joyful shout; and
																																																																																												soon after, Queequeg was seen boldly striking out with one hand, and
																																																																																												with the other clutching the long hair of the Indian. Drawn into the
																																																																																												waiting boat, they were quickly brought to the deck; but Tashtego was
																																																																																												long in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very brisk.

																																																																																												Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished? Why, diving after the
																																																																																												slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made side
																																																																																												lunges near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole there; then
																																																																																												dropping his sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards,
																																																																																												and so hauled out poor Tash by the head. He averred, that upon first
																																																																																												thrusting in for him, a leg was presented; bas yet undertaken. Such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as
																																																																																												for Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the Rock of Gibraltar,
																																																																																												or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of the
																																																																																												Pantheon. Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only treats of
																																																																																												the various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces of
																																																																																												horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the
																																																																																												modifications of expression discernible therein. Nor have Gall and his
																																																																																												disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the
																																																																																												phrenological characteristics of other beings than man. Therefore,
																																																																																												though I am but ill qualified for a pioneer, in the application of
																																																																																												these two semi-sciences to the whale, I will do my endeavor. I try all
																																																																																												things; I achieve what I can.

																																																																																												Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature. He
																																																																																												has no proper nose. And since the nose is the central and most
																																																																																												conspicuous of the features; and since it perhaps most modifies and
																																																																																												finally controls their combined expression; hence it would seem that
																																																																																												its entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely affect
																																																																																												the countenance of the whale. For as in landscape gardening, a spire,
																																																																																												cupola, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable
																																																																																												to the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in
																																																																																												keeping without the elevated open-work belfry e. And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale
																																																																																												been known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified by
																																																																																												their child-magian thoughts. They deified the crocodile of the Nile,
																																																																																												because the crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no tongue,
																																																																																												or at least it is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of
																																																																																												protrusion. If hereafter any highly cultured, poetical nation shall
																																																																																												lure back to their birth-right, the merry May-day gods of old; and
																																																																																												livingly enthrone them again in the now egotistical sky; in the now
																																																																																												unhaunted hill; then be sure, exalted to Jove’s high seat, the great
																																																																																												Sperm Whale shall lord it.

																																																																																												Champollion deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics. But there is
																																																																																												no Champollion to decipher the Egypt of every man’s and every being’s
																																																																																												face. Physiognomy, like every other human science, is but a passing
																																																																																												fable. If then, Sir William Jones, who read in thirty languages, could
																																																																																												not read the simplest peasant’s face in its profounder and more subtle
																																																																																												meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of
																																																																																												the Sperm Whale’s brow? I but put that brow before you. Read it if you
																																																																																												can.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 80. The Nut.

																																																																																												If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx, to the phrenologist
																																																																																												his brain seems that ge men to perceive. A foreign friend once
																																																																																												pointed it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with
																																																																																												the vertebræ of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the
																																																																																												beaked prow of his canoe. Now, I consider that the phrenologists have
																																																																																												omitted an important thing in not pushing their investigations from the
																																																																																												cerebellum through the spinal canal. For I believe that much of a man’s
																																																																																												character will be found betokened in his backbone. I would rather feel
																																																																																												your spine than your skull, whoever you are. A thin joist of a spine
																																																																																												never yet upheld a full and noble soul. I rejoice in my spine, as in
																																																																																												the firm audacious staff of that flag which I fling half out to the
																																																																																												world.

																																																																																												Apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the Sperm Whale. His cranial
																																																																																												cavity is continuous with the first neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra
																																																																																												the bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inches across, being
																																																																																												eight in height, and of a triangular figure with the base downwards. As
																																																																																												it passes through the remaining vertebræ the canal tapers in size, but
																																																																																												for a considerable distance remains of large capacity. Now, of course,
																																																																																												this canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance—the
																																																																																												spinal cord—as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain. d to supply the deficiency; concluding by
																																																																																												hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically
																																																																																												called a _clean_ one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the name
																																																																																												of Jungfrau or the Virgin.

																																																																																												His necessities supplied, Derick departed; but he had not gained his
																																																																																												ship’s side, when whales were almost simultaneously raised from the
																																																																																												mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was Derick, that
																																																																																												without pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he slewed
																																																																																												round his boat and made after the leviathan lamp-feeders.

																																																																																												Now, the game having risen to leeward, he and the other three German
																																																																																												boats that soon followed him, had considerably the start of the
																																																																																												Pequod’s keels. There were eight whales, an average pod. Aware of their
																																																																																												danger, they were going all abreast with great speed straight before
																																																																																												the wind, rubbing their flanks as closely as so many spans of horses in
																																																																																												harness. They left a great, wide wake, as though continually unrolling
																																																																																												a great wide parchment upon the sea.

																																																																																												Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a huge,
																																																																																												humped old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well as
																																																																																												by the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed
																																																																																												afflicted with the jaundice, or some other infirmity. Whether this
																																																																																												whale belonged to the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is
																																																																																												not customary for such venerable leviathans to be at all social.
																																																																																												Nevertheless, he stuck to their wake, though indeed their back water
																																																																																												must have retarded him, because t ye going to let that rascal beat ye? Do ye
																																																																																												love brandy? A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man. Come, why
																																																																																												don’t some of ye burst a blood-vessel? Who’s that been dropping an
																																																																																												anchor overboard—we don’t budge an inch—we’re becalmed. Halloo, here’s
																																																																																												grass growing in the boat’s bottom—and by the Lord, the mast there’s
																																																																																												budding. This won’t do, boys. Look at that Yarman! The short and long
																																																																																												of it is, men, will ye spit fire or not?”

																																																																																												“Oh! see the suds he makes!” cried Flask, dancing up and down—“What a
																																																																																												hump—Oh, _do_ pile on the beef—lays like a log! Oh! my lads, _do_
																																																																																												spring—slap-jacks and quahogs for supper, you know, my lads—baked clams
																																																																																												and muffins—oh, _do_, _do_, spring,—he’s a hundred barreller—don’t lose
																																																																																												him now—don’t oh, _don’t!_—see that Yarman—Oh, won’t ye pull for your
																																																																																												duff, my lads—such a sog! such a sogger! Don’t ye love sperm? There
																																																																																												goes three thousand dollars, men!—a bank!—a whole bank! The bank of
																																																																																												England!—Oh, _do_, _do_, _do!_—What’s that Yarman about now?”

																																																																																												At this moment Derick was in the act of pitching his lamp-feeder at the
																																																																																												advancing boats, and also his oil-can; perhaps withthan all
																																																																																												three tigers—Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo—instinctively sprang to their
																																																																																												feet, and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed their
																																																																																												barbs; and darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three
																																																																																												Nantucket irons entered the whale. Blinding vapors of foam and
																																																																																												white-fire! The three boats, in the first fury of the whale’s headlong
																																																																																												rush, bumped the German’s aside with such force, that both Derick and
																																																																																												his baffled harpooneer were spilled out, and sailed over by the three
																																																																																												flying keels.

																																																																																												“Don’t be afraid, my butter-boxes,” cried Stubb, casting a passing
																																																																																												glance upon them as he shot by; “ye’ll be picked up presently—all
																																																																																												right—I saw some sharks astern—St. Bernard’s dogs, you know—relieve
																																																																																												distressed travellers. Hurrah! this is the way to sail now. Every keel
																																																																																												a sunbeam! Hurrah!—Here we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a
																																																																																												mad cougar! This puts me in mind of fastening to an elephant in a
																																																																																												tilbury on a plain—makes the wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to
																																																																																												him that way; and there’s danger of being pitched out too, when you
																																																																																												strike a hill. Hurrah! this is the way a fellow feels when he’s going
																																																																																												to Davy Jones—all a rush down an endless inclined plane! Hurrah! this
																																																																																												whale carries the everlasting mail!”

																																																																																												But the monster’s run was a brief one. Giving a sudden gasp, he
																																																																																												tumultuously sounded. With a grating rush, the three lines flew round
																																																																																												the loggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in t he? Oh!
																																																																																												that unfulfilments should follow the prophets. For with the strength of
																																																																																												a thousand thighs in his tail, Leviathan had run his head under the
																																																																																												mountains of the sea, to hide him from the Pequod’s fish-spears!

																																																																																												In that sloping afternoon sunlight, the shadows that the three boats
																																																																																												sent down beneath the surface, must have been long enough and broad
																																																																																												enough to shade half Xerxes’ army. Who can tell how appalling to the
																																																																																												wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over his head!

																																																																																												“Stand by, men; he stirs,” cried Starbuck, as the three lines suddenly
																																																																																												vibrated in the water, distinctly conducting upwards to them, as by
																																																																																												magnetic wires, the life and death throbs of the whale, so that every
																																																																																												oarsman felt them in his seat. The next moment, relieved in great part
																																																																																												from the downward strain at the bows, the boats gave a sudden bounce
																																																																																												upwards, as a small icefield will, when a dense herd of white bears are
																																																																																												scared from it into the sea.

																																																																																												“Haul in! Haul in!” cried Starbuck again; “he’s rising.”

																																																																																												The lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand’s breadth
																																																																																												could have been gained, were now in long quick coils flung back all
																																																																																												dripping into the boats, and soon the whale broke water within two
																																																																																												ship’s lengths of the hunters.

																																																																																												His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion. In most land
																																																																																												animals there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins,
																																																																																												whereby when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantly
																																																																																												shut off in certain directions. Not so with the whale; one of whose
																																																																																												peculiarities it 
																																																																																												by loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had
																																																																																												made; lay panting on his side, impotently flapped with his stumped fin,
																																																																																												then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world; turned up the
																																																																																												white secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died. It was most
																																																																																												piteous, that last expiring spout. As when by unseen hands the water is
																																																																																												gradually drawn off from some mighty fountain, and with half-stifled
																																																																																												melancholy gurglings the spray-column lowers and lowers to the
																																																																																												ground—so the last long dying spout of the whale.

																																																																																												Soon, while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship, the body
																																																																																												showed symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled.
																																																																																												Immediately, by Starbuck’s orders, lines were secured to it at
																																																																																												different points, so that ere long every boat was a buoy; the sunken
																																																																																												whale being suspended a few inches beneath them by the cords. By very
																																																																																												heedful management, when the ship drew nigh, the whale was transferred
																																																																																												to her side, and was strongly secured there by the stiffest
																																																																																												fluke-chains, for it was plain that unless artificially upheld, the
																																																																																												body would at once sink to the bottom.

																																																																																												It so chanced that almost upon first cutting into him with the spade,
																																																																																												the entire length of a corroded harpoon was found imbedded in his
																																																																																												flesh, on  belly considerably elevated above the
																																																																																												surface. If the only whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and
																																																																																												broken-hearted creatures, their pads of lard diminished and all their
																																																																																												bones heavy and rheumatic; then you might with some reason assert that
																																																																																												this sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so
																																																																																												sinking, consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him. But it
																																																																																												is not so. For young whales, in the highest health, and swelling with
																																																																																												noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm flush and May of
																																																																																												life, with all their panting lard about them; even these brawny,
																																																																																												buoyant heroes do sometimes sink.

																																																																																												Be it said, however, that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this
																																																																																												accident than any other species. Where one of that sort go down, twenty
																																																																																												Right Whales do. This difference in the species is no doubt imputable
																																																																																												in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale;
																																																																																												his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton; from this
																																																																																												incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free. But there are instances
																																																																																												where, after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale
																																																																																												again rises, more buoyant than in life. But the reason of this is
																																																																																												obvious. Gases are generated in him; he swells to a prodigious
																																																																																												magnitude; becomes a sort of animal balloon. A line-of-battle ship
																																																																																												could hardly keep him under then. In the Shore Whaling, on soundings,
																																																																																												amo seems most singular and suggestively important in this
																																																																																												story, is this: it was from Joppa that Jonah set sail.

																																																																																												Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda—indeed, by some supposed
																																																																																												to be indirectly derived from it—is that famous story of St. George and
																																																																																												the Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many
																																																																																												old chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together, and
																																																																																												often stand for each other. “Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a
																																																																																												dragon of the sea,” saith Ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale; in
																																																																																												truth, some versions of the Bible use that word itself. Besides, it
																																																																																												would much subtract from the glory of the exploit had St. George but
																																																																																												encountered a crawling reptile of the land, instead of doing battle
																																																																																												with the great monster of the deep. Any man may kill a snake, but only
																																																																																												a Perseus, a St. George, a Coffin, have the heart in them to march
																																																																																												boldly up to a whale.

																																																																																												Let not the modern paintings of this scene mislead us; for though the
																																																																																												creature encountered by that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely
																																																																																												represented of a griffin-like shape, and though the battle is depicted
																																																																																												on land and the saint on horseback, yet considering the great ignorance
																																																																																												of those times, when the true form of the whale was unknown to artists;
																																																																																												and considering that as in Perseus’ case, St. George’s whale might have
																																																																																												crawled up out of the sea on the beaishnoo, to preside over the work; but the Vedas, or mystical
																																																																																												books, whose perusal would seem to have been indispensable to Vishnoo
																																																																																												before beginning the creation, and which therefore must have contained
																																																																																												something in the shape of practical hints to young architects, these
																																																																																												Vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters; so Vishnoo became
																																																																																												incarnate in a whale, and sounding down in him to the uttermost depths,
																																																																																												rescued the sacred volumes. Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then? even
																																																																																												as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?

																																																																																												Perseus, St. George, Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo! there’s a
																																																																																												member-roll for you! What club but the whaleman’s can head off like
																																																																																												that?


																																																																																												CHAPTER 83. Jonah Historically Regarded.

																																																																																												Reference was made to the historical story of Jonah and the whale in
																																																																																												the preceding chapter. Now some Nantucketers rather distrust this
																																																																																												historical story of Jonah and the whale. But then there were some
																																																																																												sceptical Greeks and Romans, who, standing out from the orthodox pagans
																																																																																												of their times, equally doubted the story of Hercules and the whale,
																																																																																												and Arion and the dolphin; and yet their doubting those traditions did
																																																																																												not make those traditions one whit the less facts, for all that.

																																																																																												One old Sag-Harbor whaleman’s chief reason for questioning the Hebrew
																																																																																												story was this:—He had one of those quaint old-fashioned Bibles,
																																																																																												embellished with curious, unscientific plates; oak of
																																																																																												the Tigris waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for any
																																																																																												whale to swim in. Besides, this idea of Jonah’s weathering the Cape of
																																																																																												Good Hope at so early a day would wrest the honor of the discovery of
																																																																																												that great headland from Bartholomew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, and
																																																																																												so make modern history a liar.

																																																																																												But all these foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only evinced his
																																																																																												foolish pride of reason—a thing still more reprehensible in him, seeing
																																																																																												that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from the
																																																																																												sun and the sea. I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and
																																																																																												abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy. For by a
																																																																																												Portuguese Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah’s going to Nineveh
																																																																																												via the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of the
																																																																																												general miracle. And so it was. Besides, to this day, the highly
																																																																																												enlightened Turks devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah.
																																																																																												And some three centuries ago, an English traveller in old Harris’s
																																																																																												Voyages, speaks of a Turkish Mosque built in honor of Jonah, in which
																																																																																												Mosque was a miraculous lamp that burnt without any oil.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 84. Pitchpoling.

																																																																																												To make them run easily and swiftly, the axles of carriages are
																																																																																												anointed; and for much the same purpose, some whalers perform an
																																																																																												analogous operation upon their boat; they grease the bottom. Nor is it
																																																																																												to n the direst emergencies, was specially qualified to excel
																																																																																												in pitchpoling. Look at him; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the
																																																																																												flying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is forty feet
																																																																																												ahead. Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice along
																																																																																												its length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gathers
																																																																																												up the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in
																																																																																												his grasp, leaving the rest unobstructed. Then holding the lance full
																																																																																												before his waistband’s middle, he levels it at the whale; when,
																																																																																												covering him with it, he steadily depresses the butt-end in his hand,
																																																																																												thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon
																																																																																												his palm, fifteen feet in the air. He minds you somewhat of a juggler,
																																																																																												balancing a long staff on his chin. Next moment with a rapid, nameless
																																																																																												impulse, in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming
																																																																																												distance, and quivers in the life spot of the whale. Instead of
																																																																																												sparkling water, he now spouts red blood.

																																																																																												“That drove the spigot out of him!” cried Stubb. “’Tis July’s immortal
																																																																																												Fourth; all fountains must run wine today! Would now, it were old
																																																																																												Orleans whiskey, or old Ohio, or unspeakable old Monongahela! Then,
																																																																																												Tashtego, lad, I’d have ye t the bottom) without drawing a single breath, or
																																																																																												so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember, he has
																																																																																												no gills. How is this? Between his ribs and on each side of his spine
																																																																																												he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of
																																																																																												vermicelli-like vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are
																																																																																												completely distended with oxygenated blood. So that for an hour or
																																																																																												more, a thousand fathoms in the sea, he carries a surplus stock of
																																																																																												vitality in him, just as the camel crossing the waterless desert
																																																																																												carries a surplus supply of drink for future use in its four
																																																																																												supplementary stomachs. The anatomical fact of this labyrinth is
																																																																																												indisputable; and that the supposition founded upon it is reasonable
																																																																																												and true, seems the more cogent to me, when I consider the otherwise
																																																																																												inexplicable obstinacy of that leviathan in _having his spoutings out_,
																																																																																												as the fishermen phrase it. This is what I mean. If unmolested, upon
																																																																																												rising to the surface, the Sperm Whale will continue there for a period
																																																																																												of time exactly uniform with all his other unmolested risings. Say he
																																																																																												stays eleven minutes, and jets seventy times, that is, respires seventy
																																																																																												breaths; then whenever he rises again, he will be sure to have his
																																																																																												seventy breaths over again, to a minute. Now, if after he fetches a few
																																																																																												breaths you alarm him, so that he sounds, he will be always dodging up
																																																																																												again to make good his regular als, whether the spout
																																																																																												of the Sperm Whale is the mere vapor of the exhaled breath, or whether
																																																																																												that exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth, and
																																																																																												discharged through the spiracle. It is certain that the mouth
																																																																																												indirectly communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be
																																																																																												proved that this is for the purpose of discharging water through the
																																																																																												spiracle. Because the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be,
																																																																																												when in feeding he accidentally takes in water. But the Sperm Whale’s
																																																																																												food is far beneath the surface, and there he cannot spout even if he
																																																																																												would. Besides, if you regard him very closely, and time him with your
																																																																																												watch, you will find that when unmolested, there is an undeviating
																																																																																												rhyme between the periods of his jets and the ordinary periods of
																																																																																												respiration.

																																																																																												But why pester one with all this reasoning on the subject? Speak out!
																																																																																												You have seen him spout; then declare what the spout is; can you not
																																																																																												tell water from air? My dear sir, in this world it is not so easy to
																																																																																												settle these plain things. I have ever found your plain things the
																																																																																												knottiest of all. And as for this whale spout, you might almost stand
																																																																																												in it, and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely.

																																																																																												The ctional argument for the above
																																																																																												supposition.

																																																																																												And how nobly it raises our conceit of the mighty, misty monster, to
																																																																																												behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea; his vast, mild
																																																																																												head overhung by a canopy of vapor, engendered by his incommunicable
																																																																																												contemplations, and that vapor—as you will sometimes see it—glorified
																																																																																												by a rainbow, as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his thoughts.
																																																																																												For, d’ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only irradiate
																																																																																												vapor. And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my
																																																																																												mind, divine intuitions now and then shoot, enkindling my fog with a
																																																																																												heavenly ray. And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny;
																																																																																												but doubts or denials, few along with them, have intuitions. Doubts of
																																																																																												all things earthly, and intuitions of some things heavenly; this
																																																																																												combination makes neither believer nor infidel, but makes a man who
																																																																																												regards them both with equal eye.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 86. The Tail.

																																																																																												Other poets have warbled the praises of the soft eye of the antelope,
																																																																																												and the lovely plumage of the bird that never alights; less celestial,
																																																																																												I celebrate a tail.

																																																																																												Reckoning the largest sized Sperm Whale’s tail to begin at that point
																																																																																												of the trunk where it tapers to about the girth of a man, it comprises
																																																																																												upontues of his
																																																																																												teachings.

																																																																																												Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that whether
																																																																																												wielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood it
																																																																																												be in, its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace. Therein
																																																																																												no fairy’s arm can transcend it.

																																																																																												Five great motions are peculiar to it. First, when used as a fin for
																																																																																												progression; Second, when used as a mace in battle; Third, in sweeping;
																																																																																												Fourth, in lobtailing; Fifth, in peaking flukes.

																																																																																												First: Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan’s tail acts in a
																																																																																												different manner from the tails of all other sea creatures. It never
																																																																																												wriggles. In man or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority. To the
																																																																																												whale, his tail is the sole means of propulsion. Scroll-wise coiled
																																																																																												forwards beneath the body, and then rapidly sprung backwards, it is
																																																																																												this which gives that singular darting, leaping motion to the monster
																																																																																												when furiously swimming. His side-fins only serve to steer by.

																																																																																												Second: It is a little significant, that while one sperm whale only
																																																																																												fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless, in his
																																																																																												conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail. In
																																																																																												striking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and the
																																																																																												blow is only inflicted by the recoil. If it be made in the unobstructed
																																																																																												air, especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply
																																																																																												irresistible. No ribs of man or boat can withstand it. Your only
																																																																																												salvation lies in eluding it; but if it comes sideways through the
																																																																																												opposing water, then partly owing to the light buoyancy of the
																																																																																												whale-boat, and the elasticity of its materials, a cracked rib or a
																																																																																												dashed plank or two, a sort of stitch in the side, is generally the
																																																																																												most serious result. These submerged side blows are so often received
																																																																																												in the fishery, that they are accounted mere child’s play. Some one
																																																																																												strips off a frock, and the hole is stopped.

																																																																																												Third: ven. So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting
																																																																																												forth his tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell. But in
																																																																																												gazing at such scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in the
																																																																																												Dantean, the devils will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the
																																																																																												archangels. Standing at the mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that
																																																																																												crimsoned sky and sea, I once saw a large herd of whales in the east,
																																																																																												all heading towards the sun, and for a moment vibrating in concert with
																																																																																												peaked flukes. As it seemed to me at the time, such a grand embodiment
																																																																																												of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the home of
																																																																																												the fire worshippers. As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African
																																																																																												elephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most
																																																																																												devout of all beings. For according to King Juba, the military
																																																																																												elephants of antiquity often hailed the morning with their trunks
																																																																																												uplifted in the profoundest silence.

																																																																																												The chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and the
																																																																																												elephant, so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk
																																																																																												of the other are concerned, should not tend to place those two opposite
																																																																																												organs on an equality, much less the creatures to which they
																																																																																												respectively belong. For as the mightiest elephant is but a terrier to
																																																																																												Leviathan, so, compared with Leviathan’s tail, his trunk is but the
																																																																																												stalk of a lily. The most direful blow from the elephant’s trunk were
																																																																																												as the playful tap of a fan, compared with the measureless crush and
																																																																																												crash of the sperm whale’s ponderous flukes, which in repeated
																																																																																												instances have one after the other hurled entire boats with all their
																																																																																												oars and crews into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his
																																																																																												balls.*

																																																																																												*Though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale and
																																																																																												the elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular the
																																																																																												elephant stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does
																																																																																												to the elephant; nevertheless, there are not wanting some points of
																																																																																												curious similitude; among these is the spout. It is well known that the
																																																																																												elephant will often draw up water or dust in his trunk, and then
																																																																																												elevating it, jet it forth in a stream.

																																																																																												The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my
																																																																																												inability to express it. At times there are gestures in it, which,
																																																																																												though they would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly
																																																																																												inexplicable. In an extensive herd, so remarkable, occasioo some vast walled empire: and
																																																																																												considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices, and silks, and jewels,
																																																																																												and gold, and ivory, with which the thousand islands of that oriental
																																																																																												sea are enriched, it seems a significant provision of nature, that such
																																																																																												treasures, by the very formation of the land, should at least bear the
																																																																																												appearance, however ineffectual, of being guarded from the all-grasping
																																																																																												western world. The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied with
																																																																																												those domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the
																																																																																												Mediterranean, the Baltic, and the Propontis. Unlike the Danes, these
																																																																																												Orientals do not demand the obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from
																																																																																												the endless procession of ships before the wind, which for centuries
																																																																																												past, by night and by day, have passed between the islands of Sumatra
																																																																																												and Java, freighted with the costliest cargoes of the east. But while
																																																																																												they freely waive a ceremonial like this, they do by no means renounce
																																																																																												their claim to more solid tribute.

																																																																																												Time out of mind the piratical proas of the Malays, lurking among the
																																																																																												low shaded coves and islets of Sumatra, have sallied out upon the
																																																																																												vessels sailing through the straits, fiercely demanding tribute at the
																																																																																												point of their spears. Though by the repeated bloody chastisements they
																																																																																												have received at the hands of European cruisers, the audacity of these
																																																																																												corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed; yet, even at the present
																																																																																												day, we occasionally hear of English and American vessels, which, in
																																																																																												those waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged.

																																																																																												With a fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these
																																																																																												straits; Ahab purposing to pass through them Almost renouncing all thought of falling in with any game
																																																																																												hereabouts, the ship had well nigh entered the straits, when the
																																																																																												customary cheering cry was heard from aloft, and ere long a spectacle
																																																																																												of singular magnificence saluted us.

																																																																																												But here be it premised, that owing to the unwearied activity with
																																																																																												which of late they have been hunted over all four oceans, the Sperm
																																																																																												Whales, instead of almost invariably sailing in small detached
																																																																																												companies, as in former times, are now frequently met with in extensive
																																																																																												herds, sometimes embracing so great a multitude, that it would almost
																																																																																												seem as if numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and
																																																																																												covenant for mutual assistance and protection. To this aggregation of
																																																																																												the Sperm Whale into such immense caravans, may be imputed the
																																																																																												circumstance that even in the best cruising grounds, you may now
																																																																																												sometimes sail for weeks and months together, without being greeted by
																																																																																												a single spout; and then be suddenly saluted by what sometimes seems
																																																																																												thousands on thousands.

																																																																																												Broad on both bows, at the distance of some two or three miles, and
																																																																																												forming a great semicircle, embracing one half of the level horizon, a
																																																																																												continuous chain of whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in the
																																																																																												noon-day air. Unlike the straight perpendicular twin-jets of the Right
																																																																																												Whale, which, dividing at top, fall over in two branches, like the
																																																																																												cleft drooping boughs of a willow, the single forward-slanting spout of
																																																																																												the Sperm Whale presents a thick . And when he glanced upon the green walls of the watery
																																																																																												defile in which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him that
																																																																																												through that gate lay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that
																																																																																												through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his
																																																																																												deadly end; and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild pirates
																																																																																												and inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with
																																																																																												their curses;—when all these conceits had passed through his brain,
																																																																																												Ahab’s brow was left gaunt and ribbed, like the black sand beach after
																																																																																												some stormy tide has been gnawing it, without being able to drag the
																																																																																												firm thing from its place.

																																																																																												But thoughts like these troubled very few of the reckless crew; and
																																																																																												when, after steadily dropping and dropping the pirates astern, the
																																																																																												Pequod at last shot by the vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra
																																																																																												side, emerging at last upon the broad waters beyond; then, the
																																																																																												harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the swift whales had been
																																																																																												gaining upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship had so
																																																																																												victoriously gained upon the Malays. But still driving on in the wake
																																																																																												of the whales, at length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the
																																																																																												ship neared them; and the wind now dying away, word was passed to
																																																																																												spring to the boats. But no sooner did the herd, by some presumed
																																																																																												wonderful instinct of the Sperm Whale, become notified of the three
																																																																																												keelst present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the
																																																																																												fishery. For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the
																																																																																												frantic shoal, you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a
																																																																																												delirious throb.

																																																																																												As, blind and deaf, the whale plunged forward, as if by sheer power of
																																																																																												speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as we
																																																																																												thus tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by
																																																																																												the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was
																																																																																												like a ship mobbed by ice-isles in a tempest, and striving to steer
																																																																																												through their complicated channels and straits, knowing not at what
																																																																																												moment it may be locked in and crushed.

																																																																																												But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully; now sheering off
																																																																																												from this monster directly across our route in advance; now edging away
																																																																																												from that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while all the
																																																																																												time, Starbuck stood up in the bows, lance in hand, pricking out of our
																																																																																												way whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was no
																																																																																												time to make long ones. Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though their
																																																																																												wonted duty was now altogether dispensed with. They chiefly attended to
																																																																																												the shouting part of the business. “Out of the way, Commodore!” cried
																																																																																												one, to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface,
																																																																																												and for an instant threatened to swamp us. “Hard down with your tail,
																																																																																												there!” cried a second to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemed
																																																																																												calmly cooling himself with his own fan-like extremity.

																																																																																												All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances, omultiplied spans of horses in a ring; and so closely shoulder to
																																																																																												shoulder, that a Titanic circus-rider might easily have over-arched the
																																																																																												middle ones, and so have gone round on their backs. Owing to the
																																																																																												density of the crowd of reposing whales, more immediately surrounding
																																																																																												the embayed axis of the herd, no possible chance of escape was at
																																																																																												present afforded us. We must watch for a breach in the living wall that
																																																																																												hemmed us in; the wall that had only admitted us in order to shut us
																																																																																												up. Keeping at the centre of the lake, we were occasionally visited by
																																																																																												small tame cows and calves; the women and children of this routed host.

																																																																																												Now, inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving
																																																																																												outer circles, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in
																																																																																												any one of those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced by
																																																																																												the whole multitude, must have contained at least two or three square
																																																																																												miles. At any rate—though indeed such a test at such a time might be
																																																																																												deceptive—spoutings might be discovered from our low boat that seemed
																																																																																												playing up almost from the rim of the horizon. I mention this
																																																																																												circumstance, because, as if the cows and calves had been purposely
																																																																																												locked up in tempen one, so that the cub is thereby trapped. Some of the subtlest
																																																																																												secrets of the seas seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond. We
																																																																																												saw young Leviathan amours in the deep.*

																																																																																												*The sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, but
																																																																																												unlike most other fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after a
																																																																																												gestation which may probably be set down at nine months, producing but
																																																																																												one at a time; though in some few known instances giving birth to an
																																																																																												Esau and Jacob:—a contingency provided for in suckling by two teats,
																																																																																												curiously situated, one on each side of the anus; but the breasts
																																																																																												themselves extend upwards from that. When by chance these precious
																																																																																												parts in a nursing whale are cut by the hunter’s lance, the mother’s
																																																																																												pouring milk and blood rivallingly discolour the sea for rods. The milk
																																																																																												is very sweet and rich; it has been tasted by man; it might do well
																																																																																												with strawberries. When overflowing with mutual esteem, the whales
																																																																																												salute _more hominum_.

																																																																																												And thus, though surrounded by circle upon circle of consternations and
																																																																																												affrights, did these inscrutable creatures at the centre freely and
																																																																																												fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments; yea, serenely revelled
																																																																																												in dalliance and delight. But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic of
																																																																																												my being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm;
																																																																																												and while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep down
																																																																																												and deep inland there I still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy.

																																																																																												Meanwhile, as we thus lay entranced, the occasional sudden frantic
																																																																																												spectacles in the distance evinced the activity of the other boats,
																																																																																												still engaged in drugging the whales on the o pile themselves up in one common mountain. Instantly
																																																																																												Starbuck and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking the stern.

																																																																																												“Oars! Oars!” he intensely whispered, seizing the helm—“gripe your
																																																																																												oars, and clutch your souls, now! My God, men, stand by! Shove him off,
																																																																																												you Queequeg—the whale there!—prick him!—hit him! Stand up—stand up,
																																																																																												and stay so! Spring, men—pull, men; never mind their backs—scrape
																																																																																												them!—scrape away!”

																																																																																												The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks, leaving a
																																																																																												narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths. But by desperate
																																																																																												endeavor we at last shot into a temporary opening; then giving way
																																																																																												rapidly, and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet.
																																																																																												After many similar hair-breadth escapes, we at last swiftly glided into
																																																																																												what had just been one of the outer circles, but now crossed by random
																																																																																												whales, all violently making for one centre. This lucky salvation was
																																																																																												cheaply purchased by the loss of Queequeg’s hat, who, while standing in
																																																																																												the bows to prick the fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean from his
																																																																																												head by the air-eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad
																																																																																												flukes close by.

																																																																																												Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was, it soon
																																																																																												resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for having
																																																																																												clumped together at last in one dense body, they then renewed their
																																																																																												onhey start for
																																																																																												the Oriental waters in anticipation of the cool season there, and so
																																																																																												evade the other excessive temperature of the year.

																																																																																												When serenely advancing on one of these journeys, if any strange
																																																																																												suspicious sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his
																																																																																												interesting family. Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan
																																																																																												coming that way, presume to draw confidentially close to one of the
																																																																																												ladies, with what prodigious fury the Bashaw assails him, and chases
																																																																																												him away! High times, indeed, if unprincipled young rakes like him are
																																																																																												to be permitted to invade the sanctity of domestic bliss; though do
																																																																																												what the Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most notorious Lothario out of
																																																																																												his bed; for, alas! all fish bed in common. As ashore, the ladies often
																																																																																												cause the most terrible duels among their rival admirers; just so with
																																																																																												the whales, who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love. They
																																																																																												fence with their long lower jaws, sometimes locking them together, and
																																																																																												so striving for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their
																																																																																												antlers. Not a few are captured having the deep scars of these
																																																																																												encounters,—furrowed heads, broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in some
																																																																																												instances, wrenched and dislocated mouths.

																																																																																												But supposing the invader of domestic bli or
																																																																																												forty-barrel-bulls, as they call them, are by far the most pugnacious
																																																																																												of all Leviathans, and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter;
																																																																																												excepting those wondrous grey-headed, grizzled whales, sometimes met,
																																																																																												and these will fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout.

																																																																																												The Forty-barrel-bull schools are larger than the harem schools. Like a
																																																																																												mob of young collegians, they are full of fight, fun, and wickedness,
																																																																																												tumbling round the world at such a reckless, rollicking rate, that no
																																																																																												prudent underwriter would insure them any more than he would a riotous
																																																																																												lad at Yale or Harvard. They soon relinquish this turbulence though,
																																																																																												and when about three-fourths grown, break up, and separately go about
																																																																																												in quest of settlements, that is, harems.

																																																																																												Another point of difference between the male and female schools is
																																																																																												still more characteristic of the sexes. Say you strike a
																																																																																												Forty-barrel-bull—poor devil! all his comrades quit him. But strike a
																																																																																												member of the harem school, and her companions swim around her with
																																																																																												every token of concern, sometimes lingering so near her and so long, as
																																																																																												themselves to fall a prey.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 89. Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish.

																																																																																												The allusion to the waif and waif-poles in the last chapter but one,
																																																																																												necessitates some account of the laws and regulations of the whale
																																																																																												fishery, of which the waif may f
																																																																																												a whale in the Northern seas; and when indeed they (the plaintiffs) had
																																																																																												succeeded in harpooning the fish; they were at last, through peril of
																																																																																												their lives, obliged to forsake not only their lines, but their boat
																																																																																												itself. Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came up
																																																																																												with the whale, struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it
																																																																																												before the very eyes of the plaintiffs. And when those defendants were
																																																																																												remonstrated with, their captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs’
																																																																																												teeth, and assured them that by way of doxology to the deed he had
																																																																																												done, he would now retain their line, harpoons, and boat, which had
																																																																																												remained attached to the whale at the time of the seizure. Wherefore
																																																																																												the plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale,
																																																																																												line, harpoons, and boat.

																																																																																												Mr. Erskine was counsel for the defendants; Lord Ellenborough was the
																																																																																												judge. In the course of the defence, the witty Erskine went on to
																																																																																												illustrate his position, by alluding to a recent crim. con. case,
																																																																																												wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his wife’s
																																																																																												viciousness, had at last abandoned her upon the seas of life; but in
																																																																																												the course of years, repenting of that step, he instituted an action to
																																																																																												recover possession of her. Erskine was on the other side; and he then
																																																																																												supported it by saying, that though the gentleman had originally
																																																																																												harpooned the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason of
																																																																																												the great stress of her plunging viciousness, had at last abandoned
																																																																																												her; yet abandon her he did, so that she became a loose-fish; and
																																																																																												therefore when a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady then
																																																																																												became that subsequent
																																																																																												towns and hamlets but Fast-Fish? What to that redoubted harpooneer,
																																																																																												John Bull, is poor Ireland, but a Fast-Fish? What to that apostolic
																																																																																												lancer, Brother Jonathan, is Texas but a Fast-Fish? And concerning all
																																																																																												these, is not Possession the whole of the law?

																																																																																												But if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable, the
																																																																																												kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so. That is
																																																																																												internationally and universally applicable.

																																																																																												What was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck the
																																																																																												Spanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and
																																																																																												mistress? What was Poland to the Czar? What Greece to the Turk? What
																																																																																												India to England? What at last will Mexico be to the United States? All
																																																																																												Loose-Fish.

																																																																																												What are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World but
																																																																																												Loose-Fish? What all men’s minds and opinions but Loose-Fish? What is
																																																																																												the principle of religious belief in them but a Loose-Fish? What to the
																																																																																												ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but
																																																																																												Loose-Fish? What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish? And what
																																																																																												are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?


																																																																																												CHAPTER 90. Heads or Tails.

																																																																																												“De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat caput, et regina caudam.”
																																																																																												_Bracton, l. 3, c. 3._

																																																																																												Latin from the books of the Laws of England, which taken along with thsome expense, and is all
																																																																																												that to go to the Duke’s benefit; we getting nothing at all for our
																																																																																												pains but our blisters?”

																																																																																												“It is his.”

																																																																																												“Is the Duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of
																																																																																												getting a livelihood?”

																																																																																												“It is his.”

																																																																																												“I thought to relieve my old bed-ridden mother by part of my share of
																																																																																												this whale.”

																																																																																												“It is his.”

																																																																																												“Won’t the Duke be content with a quarter or a half?”

																																																																																												“It is his.”

																																																																																												In a word, the whale was seized and sold, and his Grace the Duke of
																																																																																												Wellington received the money. Thinking that viewed in some particular
																																																																																												lights, the case might by a bare possibility in some small degree be
																																																																																												deemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an honest clergyman
																																																																																												of the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace, begging him to
																																																																																												take the case of those unfortunate mariners into full consideration. To
																																																																																												which my Lord Duke in substance replied (both letters were published)
																																																																																												that he had already done so, and received the money, and would be
																																																																																												obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he (the reverend
																																																																																												gentleman) would decline meddling with other people’s business. Is this
																																																																																												the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three
																																																																																												kingdoms, on all hands coercing alms of beggars?

																																																																																												It will readily be seen that ie that has died unmolested on the sea, and so floated an
																																																																																												unappropriated corpse. It may well be conceived, what an unsavory odor
																																																																																												such a mass must exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the plague,
																																																																																												when the living are incompetent to bury the departed. So intolerable
																																																																																												indeed is it regarded by some, that no cupidity could persuade them to
																																																																																												moor alongside of it. Yet are there those who will still do it;
																																																																																												notwithstanding the fact that the oil obtained from such subjects is of
																																																																																												a very inferior quality, and by no means of the nature of
																																																																																												attar-of-rose.

																																																																																												Coming still nearer with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman
																																																																																												had a second whale alongside; and this second whale seemed even more of
																																																																																												a nosegay than the first. In truth, it turned out to be one of those
																																																																																												problematical whales that seem to dry up and die with a sort of
																																																																																												prodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion; leaving their defunct bodies
																																																																																												almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil. Nevertheless, in the
																																																																																												proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever turn up
																																																																																												his nose at such a whale as this, however much he may shun blasted
																																																																																												whales in general.

																																																																																												The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger, that Stubb vowed he
																																																																																												recognised his cutting spade-pole entangled in the lines that were
																																																																																												knotted round the tail of one of these whales.

																																																																																												“There’s a pretuernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out to be
																																																																																												the chief-mate.

																																																																																												“Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the White Whale?”

																																																																																												“_What_ whale?”

																																																																																												“The _White_ Whale—a Sperm Whale—Moby Dick, have ye seen him?

																																																																																												“Never heard of such a whale. Cachalot Blanche! White Whale—no.”

																																																																																												“Very good, then; good bye now, and I’ll call again in a minute.”

																																																																																												Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab leaning
																																																																																												over the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his two
																																																																																												hands into a trumpet and shouted—“No, Sir! No!” Upon which Ahab
																																																																																												retired, and Stubb returned to the Frenchman.

																																																																																												He now perceived that the Guernsey-man, who had just got into the
																																																																																												chains, and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his nose in a sort of
																																																																																												bag.

																																																																																												“What’s the matter with your nose, there?” said Stubb. “Broke it?”

																																																																																												“I wish it was broken, or that I didn’t have any nose at all!” answered
																																																																																												the Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very
																																																																																												much. “But what are you holding _yours_ for?”

																																																																																												“Oh, nothing! It’s a wax nose; I have to hold it on. Fine day, ain’t
																																																																																												it? Air rather gardenny, I should say; throw us a bunch of posies, will
																																																																																												ye, Bouton-de-Rose?”

																																																																																												“What in the devil’s name do you want here?” roared the Guernseyman,
																																																																																												flying into a sudden passion.

																																																																																												“Oh! keep cool—cool? yes, that’s the word! why don’t you pack those
																																																																																												whales in ice while you’re working at ’em? But joking aside, though; do
																																																																																												you know, Rose-bud, him during the interview.

																																																																																												By this time their destined victim appeared from his cabin. He was a
																																																																																												small and dark, but rather delicate looking man for a sea-captain, with
																																																																																												large whiskers and moustache, however; and wore a red cotton velvet
																																																																																												vest with watch-seals at his side. To this gentleman, Stubb was now
																																																																																												politely introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once ostentatiously put
																																																																																												on the aspect of interpreting between them.

																																																																																												“What shall I say to him first?” said he.

																																																																																												“Why,” said Stubb, eyeing the velvet vest and the watch and seals, “you
																																																																																												may as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort of babyish to me,
																																																																																												though I don’t pretend to be a judge.”

																																																																																												“He says, Monsieur,” said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his
																																																																																												captain, “that only yesterday his ship spoke a vessel, whose captain
																																																																																												and chief-mate, with six sailors, had all died of a fever caught from a
																																																																																												blasted whale they had brought alongside.”

																																																																																												Upon this the captain started, and eagerly desired to know more.

																																																																																												“What now?” said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.

																																																																																												“Why, since he takes it so easy, tell him that now I have eyed him
																																																																																												carefully, I’m quite certain that he’s no more fit to command a
																																																																																												whale-ship than a St. Jago monkey. In fact, tell him from me he’s a
																																																																																												baboon.”

																																																																																												“He vows and declares, Monsieur, that the other whale, the dried one,
																																																																																												is far more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures
																																																																																												us, as  the very heart of this plague, there stole a
																																																																																												faint stream of perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smells
																																																																																												without being absorbed by it, as one river will flow into and then
																																																																																												along with another, without at all blending with it for a time.

																																																																																												“I have it, I have it,” cried Stubb, with delight, striking something
																																																																																												in the subterranean regions, “a purse! a purse!”

																																																																																												Dropping his spade, he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls of
																																																																																												something that looked like ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled old
																																																																																												cheese; very unctuous and savory withal. You might easily dent it with
																																																																																												your thumb; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour. And this,
																																																																																												good friends, is ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce to any
																																																																																												druggist. Some six handfuls were obtained; but more was unavoidably
																																																																																												lost in the sea, and still more, perhaps, might have been secured were
																																																																																												it not for impatient Ahab’s loud command to Stubb to desist, and come
																																																																																												on board, else the ship would bid them good bye.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 92. Ambergris.

																																																																																												Now this ambergris is a very curious substance, and so important as an
																																																																																												article of commerce, that in 1791 a certain Nantucket-born Captain
																																																																																												Coffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that
																																																																																												subject. For at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day,
																																																																																												the precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem
																																																																																												to the learned. Though the word ambergris is but the French compound
																																																																																												for grey amber, yet the two substances are quite distinct. For amber,
																																																																																												though at times found on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some far
																																																																																												inland soils, whereas ambergris is never found except upon the sea.
																																																																																												Besides, amber is a hard, transparent, brittle, odorless substance,
																																																																																												used for mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and ornaments; but ay out their oil at sea
																																																																																												as the Southern ships have always done; but cutting up the fresh
																																																																																												blubber in small bits, thrust it through the bung holes of large casks,
																																																																																												and carry it home in that manner; the shortness of the season in those
																																																																																												Icy Seas, and the sudden and violent storms to which they are exposed,
																																																																																												forbidding any other course. The consequence is, that upon breaking
																																																																																												into the hold, and unloading one of these whale cemeteries, in the
																																																																																												Greenland dock, a savor is given forth somewhat similar to that arising
																																																																																												from excavating an old city grave-yard, for the foundations of a
																																																																																												Lying-in Hospital.

																																																																																												I partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against whalers may be
																																																																																												likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland, in former
																																																																																												times, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg, which
																																																																																												latter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack, in his great
																																																																																												work on Smells, a text-book on that subject. As its name imports
																																																																																												(smeer, fat; berg, to put up), this village was founded in order to
																																																																																												afford a place for the blubber of the Dutch whale fleet to be tried
																																																																																												out, without being taken home to Holland for that purpose. It was a
																																																																																												collection of furnaces, fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works
																																																																																												were in full operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor. But
																																																																																												all this is quite different with a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which in a
																																																																																												voyage of four years perhapsncy;
																																																																																												behold yon lustrous ebony, panelled in king’s cabinets. But Pip loved
																																																																																												life, and all life’s peaceable securities; so that the panic-striking
																																																																																												business in which he had somehow unaccountably become entrapped, had
																																																																																												most sadly blurred his brightness; though, as ere long will be seen,
																																																																																												what was thus temporarily subdued in him, in the end was destined to be
																																																																																												luridly illumined by strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed him
																																																																																												off to ten times the natural lustre with which in his native Tolland
																																																																																												County in Connecticut, he had once enlivened many a fiddler’s frolic on
																																																																																												the green; and at melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha! had turned
																																																																																												the round horizon into one star-belled tambourine. So, though in the
																																																																																												clear air of day, suspended against a blue-veined neck, the
																																																																																												pure-watered diamond drop will healthful glow; yet, when the cunning
																																																																																												jeweller would show you the diamond in its most impressive lustre, he
																																																																																												lays it against a gloomy ground, and then lights it up, not by the sun,
																																																																																												but by some unnatural gases. Then come out those fiery effulgences,
																																																																																												infernally superb; then the evil-blazing diamond, once the divinest
																																																																																												symbol of the crystal skies, looks like some crown-jewel stolen from
																																																																																												the King of Hell. But let us to the story.

																																																																																												It came to pass, that in the ambergris affair Stubb’s after-oarsman
																																																																																												chanced so to sprain his hand, as for a time to become quite maimed;
																																																																																												and, temporarily, Pip was put into his place.

																																																																																												The first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness;
																																																																																												but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and
																																																																																												therefore came off not altogether discreditably; though Stubb observing
																																																																																												him, took care, afterwards, to exhort him to cherish his courageousness
																																																																																												to the utmost, for he might often find it needful.

																																																																																												Now upon the second lowering, the boat paddled upon the whale; and hough man loved his fellow, yet man is a money-making animal,
																																																																																												which propensity too often interferes with his benevolence.

																																																																																												But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped again. It was
																																																																																												under very similar circumstances to the first performance; but this
																																																																																												time he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale started
																																																																																												to run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller’s
																																																																																												trunk. Alas! Stubb was but too true to his word. It was a beautiful,
																																																																																												bounteous, blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly
																																																																																												stretching away, all round, to the horizon, like gold-beater’s skin
																																																																																												hammered out to the extremest. Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip’s
																																																																																												ebon head showed like a head of cloves. No boat-knife was lifted when
																																																																																												he fell so rapidly astern. Stubb’s inexorable back was turned upon him;
																																																																																												and the whale was winged. In three minutes, a whole mile of shoreless
																																																																																												ocean was between Pip and Stubb. Out from the centre of the sea, poor
																																																																																												Pip turned his crisp, curling, black head to the sun, another lonely
																																																																																												castaway, though the loftiest and the brightest.

																																																																																												Now, in calm weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the
																																																																																												practised swimmer as to ride in a spring-carriage ashore. But the awful
																																																																																												lonesomeness is intolerable. The intense concentration of self in the
																																																																																												middle of such a heartless immensity, my God! who can tell it? Mark,
																																																																																												how when sailors in a dead calm bathe in the open sea—mark how closely
																																																																																												they hug their ship and only coast along her sides.

																																																																																												But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate? No;
																																																																																												he did not mewith
																																																																																												several others, I sat down before a large Constantine’s bath of it, I
																																																																																												found it strangely concreted into lumps, here and there rolling about
																																																																																												in the liquid part. It was our business to squeeze these lumps back
																																																																																												into fluid. A sweet and unctuous duty! No wonder that in old times this
																																																																																												sperm was such a favourite cosmetic. Such a clearer! such a sweetener!
																																																																																												such a softener! such a delicious molifier! After having my hands in it
																																																																																												for only a few minutes, my fingers felt like eels, and began, as it
																																																																																												were, to serpentine and spiralise.

																																																																																												As I sat there at my ease, cross-legged on the deck; after the bitter
																																																																																												exertion at the windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; the ship under
																																																																																												indolent sail, and gliding so serenely along; as I bathed my hands
																																																																																												among those soft, gentle globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almost
																																																																																												within the hour; as they richly broke to my fingers, and discharged all
																																																																																												their opulence, like fully ripe grapes their wine; as I snuffed up that
																																																																																												uncontaminated aroma,—literally and truly, like the smell of spring
																																																																																												violets; I declare to you, that for the time I lived as in a musky
																																																																																												meadow; I forgot all about our horrible oath; in that inexpressible
																																																																																												sperm, I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost began to credit
																																																																																												the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue in
																																																																																												allaying the heat of anger; while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely
																																																																																												free from all ill-will, or petulance, or malice, of any sort
																																																																																												whatsoever.

																																																																																												Squeeze! squeeze! squeeze! all the morning long; I squeezed that sperm
																																																																																												till I myself almost melted into it; I squeezed that sperm till a
																																																																																												strange sort of insanity came over me; and I found myself unwittingly
																																																																																												squeezing my co-laborers’ hands in it, mistaking their hands for the
																																																																																												gentle globules. Such an abounding, affectionate, friendly, loving
																																																																																												feeling did this avocation beget; thaat particular venison season contemporary with an
																																																																																												unusually fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne.

																																																																																												There is another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up in
																																																																																												the course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling
																																																																																												adequately to describe. It is called slobgollion; an appellation
																																																																																												original with the whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance.
																																																																																												It is an ineffably oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in the
																																																																																												tubs of sperm, after a prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting. I
																																																																																												hold it to be the wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case,
																																																																																												coalescing.

																																																																																												Gurry, so called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but
																																																																																												sometimes incidentally used by the sperm fishermen. It designates the
																																																																																												dark, glutinous substance which is scraped off the back of the
																																																																																												Greenland or right whale, and much of which covers the decks of those
																																																																																												inferior souls who hunt that ignoble Leviathan.

																																																																																												Nippers. Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale’s
																																																																																												vocabulary. But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so. A whaleman’s
																																																																																												nipper is a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering
																																																																																												part of Leviathan’s tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the
																																																																																												rest, is about the size of the iron part of a hoe. Edgewise moved along
																																																																																												the oily deck, it operates like a leathern squilgee; and by nameless
																																																																																												blandishments, as of magic, allures 
																																																																																												inside out, like a pantaloon leg; gives it a good stretching, so as
																																																																																												almost to double its diameter; and at last hangs it, well spread, in
																																																																																												the rigging, to dry. Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some
																																																																																												three feet of it, towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two
																																																																																												slits for arm-holes at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself
																																																																																												bodily into it. The mincer now stands before you invested in the full
																																																																																												canonicals of his calling. Immemorial to all his order, this
																																																																																												investiture alone will adequately protect him, while employed in the
																																																																																												peculiar functions of his office.

																																																																																												That office consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for the
																																																																																												pots; an operation which is conducted at a curious wooden horse,
																																																																																												planted endwise against the bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath
																																																																																												it, into which the minced pieces drop, fast as the sheets from a rapt
																																																																																												orator’s desk. Arrayed in decent black; occupying a conspicuous pulpit;
																																																																																												intent on bible leaves; what a candidate for an archbishopric, what a
																																																																																												lad for a Pope were this mincer!*

																																																																																												*Bible leaves! Bible leaves! This is the invariable cry from the mates
																																																																																												to the mincer. It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as
																																																																																												thin slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business of
																																																																																												boiling out the oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably
																																																																																												increased, besst fire in the try-works has to be fed
																																																																																												for a time with wood. After that no wood is used, except as a means of
																																																																																												quick ignition to the staple fuel. In a word, after being tried out,
																																																																																												the crisp, shrivelled blubber, now called scraps or fritters, still
																																																																																												contains considerable of its unctuous properties. These fritters feed
																																																																																												the flames. Like a plethoric burning martyr, or a self-consuming
																																																																																												misanthrope, once ignited, the whale supplies his own fuel and burns by
																																																																																												his own body. Would that he consumed his own smoke! for his smoke is
																																																																																												horrible to inhale, and inhale it you must, and not only that, but you
																																																																																												must live in it for the time. It has an unspeakable, wild, Hindoo odor
																																																																																												about it, such as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal pyres. It smells
																																																																																												like the left wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument for the
																																																																																												pit.

																																																																																												By midnight the works were in full operation. We were clear from the
																																																																																												carcase; sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild ocean
																																																																																												darkness was intense. But that darkness was licked up by the fierce
																																																																																												flames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and
																																																																																												illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek
																																																																																												fire. The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to
																																																																																												some vengeful deed. So the pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of the
																																																																																												bold Hydriote, Canaris, issuing from their midnight harbors, with broad
																																																																																												sheets of flame for sails, bore down upon the Turkish frigates, and
																																																																																												folded them in conflagrations.

																																																																																												The hatch, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a wide
																																																																																												hearth in front of them. Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of
																																																																																												the pagan harpooneers, always the whale-ship’s stokers. With huge
																																																																																												pronged poles they pitched hissire
																																																																																												open; I was half conscious of putting my fingers to the lids and
																																																																																												mechanically stretching them still further apart. But, spite of all
																																																																																												this, I could see no compass before me to steer by; though it seemed
																																																																																												but a minute since I had been watching the card, by the steady binnacle
																																																																																												lamp illuminating it. Nothing seemed before me but a jet gloom, now and
																																																																																												then made ghastly by flashes of redness. Uppermost was the impression,
																																																																																												that whatever swift, rushing thing I stood on was not so much bound to
																																																																																												any haven ahead as rushing from all havens astern. A stark, bewildered
																																																																																												feeling, as of death, came over me. Convulsively my hands grasped the
																																																																																												tiller, but with the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow, in
																																																																																												some enchanted way, inverted. My God! what is the matter with me?
																																																																																												thought I. Lo! in my brief sleep I had turned myself about, and was
																																																																																												fronting the ship’s stern, with my back to her prow and the compass. In
																																																																																												an instant I faced back, just in time to prevent the vessel from flying
																																																																																												up into the wind, and very probably capsizing her. How glad and how
																																																																																												grateful the relief from this unnatural hallucination of the night, and
																																																																																												the fatal contingency of being brought by the lee!

																																																																																												Look not too long in the face of the fire, O man! Never dream with thy
																																																																																												hand on the helm! Turn not thy back to the compass; accept the first
																																																																																												hint of te makes his berth an
																																																																																												Aladdin’s lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in the pitchiest night
																																																																																												the ship’s black hull still houses an illumination.

																																																																																												See with what entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of
																																																																																												lamps—often but old bottles and vials, though—to the copper cooler at
																																																																																												the try-works, and replenishes them there, as mugs of ale at a vat. He
																																																																																												burns, too, the purest of oil, in its unmanufactured, and, therefore,
																																																																																												unvitiated state; a fluid unknown to solar, lunar, or astral
																																																																																												contrivances ashore. It is sweet as early grass butter in April. He
																																																																																												goes and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its freshness and
																																																																																												genuineness, even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his own
																																																																																												supper of game.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 98. Stowing Down and Clearing Up.

																																																																																												Already has it been related how the great leviathan is afar off
																																																																																												descried from the mast-head; how he is chased over the watery moors,
																																																																																												and slaughtered in the valleys of the deep; how he is then towed
																																																																																												alongside and beheaded; and how (on the principle which entitled the
																																																																																												headsman of old to the garments in which the beheaded was killed) his
																																																																																												great padded surtout becomes the property of his executioner; how, in
																																																																																												due time, he is condemned to the pots, and, like Shadrach, Meshach, and
																																																																																												Abednego, his spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed through the
																																																																																												fire;—but now it remains to conclude the last chapter of this part of
																																																																																												the description by rehearsing—singing, if I may—the romantic proceeding
																																																																																												of decanting off his oil into the casks and striking them down into the
																																																																																												hold, where once again leviathan returns to his native profundities,
																																																																																												sliding along beneath the surface as before; but, alas! never more to
																																																																																												rise and blow.

																																																																																												While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the
																																																																																												six-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rolling
																																																																																												this way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed
																																																																																												ntious duty
																																																																																												is at last concluded, then the crew themselves proceed to their own
																																																																																												ablutions; shift themselves from top to toe; and finally issue to the
																																																																																												immaculate deck, fresh and all aglow, as bridegrooms new-leaped from
																																																																																												out the daintiest Holland.

																																																																																												Now, with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and
																																																																																												humorously discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics;
																																																																																												propose to mat the deck; think of having hanging to the top; object not
																																																																																												to taking tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle. To hint to
																																																																																												such musked mariners of oil, and bone, and blubber, were little short
																																																																																												of audacity. They know not the thing you distantly allude to. Away, and
																																																																																												bring us napkins!

																																																																																												But mark: aloft there, at the three mast heads, stand three men intent
																																																																																												on spying out more whales, which, if caught, infallibly will again soil
																																																																																												the old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spot
																																																																																												somewhere. Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest
																																																																																												uninterrupted labors, which know no night; continuing straight through
																																																																																												for ninety-six hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their
																																																																																												wrists with all day rowing on the Line,—they only step to the deck to
																																																																																												carry vast chains, and heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash,
																																																																																												yea, and in their very sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the
																																																																																												combined fires of the equatorial sun and the equatorial try-works;
																																																																																												when, on the heel of all this, they have finally bestirred themselves
																																																																																												to cleanse the ship, and make a spotless dairy room of it; many is the
																																																																																												time the poor fellows, just buttoning the necks of their clean frocks,
																																																																																												are startled by the cry of “There she blows!” and away they fly to
																																																																																												fight another whale, and go through the whole weary thing again. Oh! my
																																																																																												friends, but this is man-klate to any foulness, it still preserved its
																																																																																												Quito glow. Nor, though placed amongst a ruthless crew and every hour
																																																																																												passed by ruthless hands, and through the livelong nights shrouded with
																																																																																												thick darkness which might cover any pilfering approach, nevertheless
																																																																																												every sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left it last. For it
																																																																																												was set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and however
																																																																																												wanton in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as
																																																																																												the white whale’s talisman. Sometimes they talked it over in the weary
																																																																																												watch by night, wondering whose it was to be at last, and whether he
																																																																																												would ever live to spend it.

																																																																																												Now those noble golden coins of South America are as medals of the sun
																																																																																												and tropic token-pieces. Here palms, alpacas, and volcanoes; sun’s
																																																																																												disks and stars; ecliptics, horns-of-plenty, and rich banners waving,
																																																																																												are in luxuriant profusion stamped; so that the precious gold seems
																																																																																												almost to derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories, by
																																																																																												passing through those fancy mints, so Spanishly poetic.

																																																																																												It so chanced that the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthy
																																																																																												example of these things. On its round border it bore the letters,
																																																																																												REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR: QUITO. So this bright coin came from a country
																																																																																												planted in the middle of the world, and beneath the great equator, and
																																																																																												named after it; and it had been cast midway up the Andes, in the
																																																																																												unwaning clime that knows no autumn. Zoned by those letters you saw the
																																																																																												likeness of three Andes’ summits; from one a flame; a tower on another;
																																																																																												on the third a crowing cock; while arching over all was a segment of
																																																																																												the partitioned zodiac, the signs all marked  have seen doubloons before now in my voyagings; your doubloons
																																																																																												of old Spain, your doubloons of Peru, your doubloons of Chili, your
																																																																																												doubloons of Bolivia, your doubloons of Popayan; with plenty of gold
																																																																																												moidores and pistoles, and joes, and half joes, and quarter joes. What
																																																																																												then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator that is so killing
																																																																																												wonderful? By Golconda! let me read it once. Halloa! here’s signs and
																																																																																												wonders truly! That, now, is what old Bowditch in his Epitome calls the
																																																																																												zodiac, and what my almanac below calls ditto. I’ll get the almanac and
																																																																																												as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll’s arithmetic, I’ll try
																																																																																												my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer curvicues here with the
																																																																																												Massachusetts calendar. Here’s the book. Let’s see now. Signs and
																																																																																												wonders; and the sun, he’s always among ’em. Hem, hem, hem; here they
																																																																																												are—here they go—all alive:—Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the Bull and
																																																																																												Jimimi! here’s Gemini himself, or the Twins. Well; the sun he wheels
																																																																																												among ’em. Aye, here on the coin he’s just crossing the threshold
																																																																																												between two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring. Book! you lie there;
																																																																																												the fact is, you books must know your places. You’ll do to give us the
																																																																																												bare words and
																																																																																												now he’s back again; what does that mean? Hark! he’s muttering—voice
																																																																																												like an old worn-out coffee-mill. Prick ears, and listen!”

																																																																																												“If the White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, when
																																																																																												the sun stands in some one of these signs. I’ve studied signs, and know
																																																																																												their marks; they were taught me two score years ago, by the old witch
																																																																																												in Copenhagen. Now, in what sign will the sun then be? The horse-shoe
																																																																																												sign; for there it is, right opposite the gold. And what’s the
																																																																																												horse-shoe sign? The lion is the horse-shoe sign—the roaring and
																																																																																												devouring lion. Ship, old ship! my old head shakes to think of thee.”

																																																																																												“There’s another rendering now; but still one text. All sorts of men in
																																																																																												one kind of world, you see. Dodge again! here comes Queequeg—all
																																																																																												tattooing—looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself. What says the
																																																																																												Cannibal? As I live he’s comparing notes; looking at his thigh bone;
																																																																																												thinks the sun is in the thigh, or in the calf, or in the bowels, I
																																																																																												suppose, as the old women talk Surgeon’s Astronomy in the back country.
																																																																																												And by Jove, he’s found something there in the vicinity of his thigh—I
																																																																																												guess it’s Sagittarius, or the Archer. No: he don’t know what to make
																																																																																												of the doubloon; he takes it for an old button off some king’s
																																																																																												trowsers. But, aside again! here comes that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tail
																																																																																												coiled out of sight as usual, oakum in the toes of his pumps as usual.
																																																																																												What does he say, with that look of his? Ah, only makes a sign to the
																																																																																												sign and bows himself; there is a sun on the coinâcarelessly reclining in his own boat’s
																																																																																												bow. He was a darkly-tanned, burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, of
																																																																																												sixty or thereabouts, dressed in a spacious roundabout, that hung round
																																																																																												him in festoons of blue pilot-cloth; and one empty arm of this jacket
																																																																																												streamed behind him like the broidered arm of a hussar’s surcoat.

																																																																																												“Hast seen the White Whale?”

																																																																																												“See you this?” and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden it,
																																																																																												he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden
																																																																																												head like a mallet.

																																																																																												“Man my boat!” cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about the oars near
																																																																																												him—“Stand by to lower!”

																																																																																												In less than a minute, without quitting his little craft, he and his
																																																																																												crew were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of the
																																																																																												stranger. But here a curious difficulty presented itself. In the
																																																																																												excitement of the moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his
																																																																																												leg he had never once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his
																																																																																												own, and then it was always by an ingenious and very handy mechanical
																																																																																												contrivance peculiar to the Pequod, and a thing not to be rigged and
																																																																																												shipped in any other vessel at a moment’s warning. Now, it is no very
																																																																																												easy matter for anybody—except those who are almost hourly used to it,
																																																																																												like whalemen—to clamber up a ship’s side from a boat on the open sea;
																																																																																												for the great swells now lift uised on the Line,”
																																																																																												began the Englishman. “I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time.
																																																																																												Well, one day we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boat
																																																																																												fastened to one of them; a regular circus horse he was, too, that went
																																																																																												milling and milling round so, that my boat’s crew could only trim dish,
																																																																																												by sitting all their sterns on the outer gunwale. Presently up breaches
																																																																																												from the bottom of the sea a bouncing great whale, with a milky-white
																																																																																												head and hump, all crows’ feet and wrinkles.”

																																																																																												“It was he, it was he!” cried Ahab, suddenly letting out his suspended
																																																																																												breath.

																																																																																												“And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin.”

																																																																																												“Aye, aye—they were mine—_my_ irons,” cried Ahab, exultingly—“but on!”

																																																																																												“Give me a chance, then,” said the Englishman, good-humoredly. “Well,
																																																																																												this old great-grandfather, with the white head and hump, runs all
																																																																																												afoam into the pod, and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line!

																																																																																												“Aye, I see!—wanted to part it; free the fast-fish—an old trick—I know
																																																																																												him.”

																																																																																												“How it was exactly,” continued the one-armed commander, “I do not
																																																																																												know; but in biting the line, it got foul of his teeth, caught there
																																																																																												somehow; but we didn’t know it then; so that when we afterwards pulled
																																																																																												on the line, bounce we came plump on to his hump! instead of the other
																																																																																												whale’s; that went off to windward, all fluking. Seeing how matters
																																																																																												stoodwent on to do his captain’s bidding.

																																																																																												“It was a shocking bad wound,” began the whale-surgeon; “and, taking my
																																																																																												advice, Captain Boomer here, stood our old Sammy—”

																																																																																												“Samuel Enderby is the name of my ship,” interrupted the one-armed
																																																																																												captain, addressing Ahab; “go on, boy.”

																																																																																												“Stood our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazing
																																																																																												hot weather there on the Line. But it was no use—I did all I could; sat
																																																																																												up with him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet—”

																																																																																												“Oh, very severe!” chimed in the patient himself; then suddenly
																																																																																												altering his voice, “Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, till
																																																																																												he couldn’t see to put on the bandages; and sending me to bed, half
																																																																																												seas over, about three o’clock in the morning. Oh, ye stars! he sat up
																																																																																												with me indeed, and was very severe in my diet. Oh! a great watcher,
																																																																																												and very dietetically severe, is Dr. Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laugh
																																																																																												out! why don’t ye? You know you’re a precious jolly rascal.) But, heave
																																																																																												ahead, boy, I’d rather be killed by you than kept alive by any other
																																																																																												man.”

																																																																																												“My captain, you must have ere this perceived, respected sir”—said the
																																																																																												imperturbable godly-looking Bunger, slightly bowing to Ahab—“is apt to
																																																																																												be facetious at times; he svidence, that it is quite impossible for him to completely digest
																																																																																												even a man’s arm? And he knows it too. So that what you take for the
																																																																																												White Whale’s malice is only his awkwardness. For he never means to
																																																																																												swallow a single limb; he only thinks to terrify by feints. But
																																																																																												sometimes he is like the old juggling fellow, formerly a patient of
																																																																																												mine in Ceylon, that making believe swallow jack-knives, once upon a
																																																																																												time let one drop into him in good earnest, and there it stayed for a
																																																																																												twelvemonth or more; when I gave him an emetic, and he heaved it up in
																																																																																												small tacks, d’ye see. No possible way for him to digest that
																																																																																												jack-knife, and fully incorporate it into his general bodily system.
																																																																																												Yes, Captain Boomer, if you are quick enough about it, and have a mind
																																																																																												to pawn one arm for the sake of the privilege of giving decent burial
																																																																																												to the other, why in that case the arm is yours; only let the whale
																																																																																												have another chance at you shortly, that’s all.”

																																																																																												“No, thank ye, Bunger,” said the English Captain, “he’s welcome to the
																																																																																												arm he has, since I can’t help it, and didn’t know him then; but not to
																																																																																												another one. No more White Whales for me; I’ve lowered for him once,
																																																																																												and that has satisfied me. There would be great glory in killing him, I
																																																																																												know that; and there is a ship-load of precious sperm in him, but, hark
																																																																																												ye, he’s best let alone; don’t you thinecious sperm,
																																																																																												the Amelia’s example was soon followed by other ships, English and
																																																																																												American, and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the Pacific were
																																																																																												thrown open. But not content with this good deed, the indefatigable
																																																																																												house again bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons—how many, their
																																																																																												mother only knows—and under their immediate auspices, and partly, I
																																																																																												think, at their expense, the British government was induced to send the
																																																																																												sloop-of-war Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South
																																																																																												Sea. Commanded by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattling
																																																																																												voyage of it, and did some service; how much does not appear. But this
																																																																																												is not all. In 1819, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship
																																																																																												of their own, to go on a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan.
																																																																																												That ship—well called the “Syren”—made a noble experimental cruise; and
																																																																																												it was thus that the great Japanese Whaling Ground first became
																																																																																												generally known. The Syren in this famous voyage was commanded by a
																																																																																												Captain Coffin, a Nantucketer.

																																																																																												All honor to the Enderbies, therefore, whose house, I think, exists to
																																																																																												the present day; though doubtless the original Samuel must long ago
																																																																																												have slipped his cable for the great South Sea of the other world.

																																																																																												The ship named after him was worthy of the honor, being a very fast
																																																																																												sailer and a noble craft every way. I boarded her once at midnight
																																																																																												somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank good flip down in thet
																																																																																												in the fishery; and what is yet more, their fat old fashions, touching
																																																																																												plenty to eat and drink. For, as a general thing, the English
																																																																																												merchant-ship scrimps her crew; but not so the English whaler. Hence,
																																																																																												in the English, this thing of whaling good cheer is not normal and
																																																																																												natural, but incidental and particular; and, therefore, must have some
																																																																																												special origin, which is here pointed out, and will be still further
																																																																																												elucidated.

																																																																																												During my researches in the Leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon an
																																																																																												ancient Dutch volume, which, by the musty whaling smell of it, I knew
																																																																																												must be about whalers. The title was, “Dan Coopman,” wherefore I
																																																																																												concluded that this must be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam
																																																																																												cooper in the fishery, as every whale ship must carry its cooper. I was
																																																																																												reinforced in this opinion by seeing that it was the production of one
																																																																																												“Fitz Swackhammer.” But my friend Dr. Snodhead, a very learned man,
																																																																																												professor of Low Dutch and High German in the college of Santa Claus
																																																																																												and St. Pott’s, to whom I handed the work for translation, giving him a
																																																																																												box of sperm candles for his trouble—this same Dr. Snodhead, so soon as
																																																																																												he spied the book, assured me that “Dan Coopman” did not mean “The
																																																																																												Cooper,” but “The Merchant.” In short, this ancient and learned Low
																																																																																												Dutch book treated of the commerce of Holland; and, among other
																																																																																												subjects, contained a very interesting account of its whale fishery.
																																																																																												And in this chapter it was, headed, “Smeer,” or “Fat,” that I found a
																																																																																												long detailed list of the outfits for the larders t no more; enough has been said to show that the old Dutch whalers of
																																																																																												two or three centuries ago were high livers; and that the English
																																																																																												whalers have not neglected so excellent an example. For, say they, when
																																																																																												cruising in an empty ship, if you can get nothing better out of the
																																																																																												world, get a good dinner out of it, at least. And this empties the
																																																																																												decanter.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 102. A Bower in the Arsacides.

																																																																																												Hitherto, in descriptively treating of the Sperm Whale, I have chiefly
																																																																																												dwelt upon the marvels of his outer aspect; or separately and in detail
																																																																																												upon some few interior structural features. But to a large and thorough
																																																																																												sweeping comprehension of him, it behooves me now to unbutton him still
																																																																																												further, and untagging the points of his hose, unbuckling his garters,
																																																																																												and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of the joints of his innermost
																																																																																												bones, set him before you in his ultimatum; that is to say, in his
																																																																																												unconditional skeleton.

																																																																																												But how now, Ishmael? How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in the
																																																																																												fishery, pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the
																																																																																												whale? Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your capstan, deliver lectures
																																																																																												on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the windlass, hold up a
																																																																																												specimen rib for exhibition? Explain thyself, Ishmael. Can you land a
																																																																																												full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook dishes a
																																																																																												roast-pig? Surely not. A veritable witness have you hitherto the trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap; the
																																																																																												industrious earth beneath was as a weaver’s loom, with a gorgeous
																																																																																												carpet on it, whereof the ground-vine tendrils formed the warp and
																																																																																												woof, and the living flowers the figures. All the trees, with all their
																																																																																												laden branches; all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the
																																																																																												message-carrying air; all these unceasingly were active. Through the
																																																																																												lacings of the leaves, the great sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving
																																																																																												the unwearied verdure. Oh, busy weaver! unseen weaver!—pause!—one
																																																																																												word!—whither flows the fabric? what palace may it deck? wherefore all
																																																																																												these ceaseless toilings? Speak, weaver!—stay thy hand!—but one single
																																																																																												word with thee! Nay—the shuttle flies—the figures float from forth the
																																																																																												loom; the freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away. The weaver-god,
																																																																																												he weaves; and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears no mortal
																																																																																												voice; and by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are deafened;
																																																																																												and only when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that speak
																																																																																												through it. For even so it is in all material factories. The spoken
																																																																																												words that are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words
																																																																																												are plainly heard without the walls, bursting from the openoprietors upon similar
																																																																																												grounds. King Tranquo seizing his because he wanted it; and Sir
																																																																																												Clifford, because he was lord of the seignories of those parts. Sir
																																																																																												Clifford’s whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a great
																																																																																												chest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bony
																																																																																												cavities—spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan—and swing all day upon
																																																																																												his lower jaw. Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and
																																																																																												shutters; and a footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of
																																																																																												keys at his side. Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep
																																																																																												at the whispering gallery in the spinal column; threepence to hear the
																																																																																												echo in the hollow of his cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalled
																																																																																												view from his forehead.

																																																																																												The skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are copied
																																																																																												verbatim from my right arm, where I had them tattooed; as in my wild
																																																																																												wanderings at that period, there was no other secure way of preserving
																																																																																												such valuable statistics. But as I was crowded for space, and wished
																																																																																												the other parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was then
																																																																																												composing—at least, what untattooed parts might remain—I did not
																																																																																												trouble myself with the odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at all
																																																																																												enter into a congenial admeasurement of the whale.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 103. Measurement of The hey all bore
																																																																																												a seemly correspondence to their length. The middle ribs were the most
																																																																																												arched. In some of the Arsacides they are used for beams whereon to lay
																																																																																												footpath bridges over small streams.

																																																																																												In considering these ribs, I could not but be struck anew with the
																																																																																												circumstance, so variously repeated in this book, that the skeleton of
																																																																																												the whale is by no means the mould of his invested form. The largest of
																																																																																												the Tranque ribs, one of the middle ones, occupied that part of the
																																																																																												fish which, in life, is greatest in depth. Now, the greatest depth of
																																																																																												the invested body of this particular whale must have been at least
																																																																																												sixteen feet; whereas, the corresponding rib measured but little more
																																																																																												than eight feet. So that this rib only conveyed half of the true notion
																																																																																												of the living magnitude of that part. Besides, for some way, where I
																																																																																												now saw but a naked spine, all that had been once wrapped round with
																																																																																												tons of added bulk in flesh, muscle, blood, and bowels. Still more, for
																																																																																												the ample fins, I here saw but a few disordered joints; and in place of
																																																																																												the weighty and majestic, but boneless flukes, an utter blank!

																																																																																												How vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid untravelled man to try
																																																																																												to comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely poring over his
																																																																																												dead attenuated skeleto with me, writing of
																																																																																												this Leviathan? Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard
																																																																																												capitals. Give me a condor’s quill! Give me Vesuvius’ crater for an
																																																																																												inkstand! Friends, hold my arms! For in the mere act of penning my
																																																																																												thoughts of this Leviathan, they weary me, and make me faint with their
																																																																																												outreaching comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include the whole
																																																																																												circle of the sciences, and all the generations of whales, and men, and
																																																																																												mastodons, past, present, and to come, with all the revolving panoramas
																																																																																												of empire on earth, and throughout the whole universe, not excluding
																																																																																												its suburbs. Such, and so magnifying, is the virtue of a large and
																																																																																												liberal theme! We expand to its bulk. To produce a mighty book, you
																																																																																												must choose a mighty theme. No great and enduring volume can ever be
																																																																																												written on the flea, though many there be who have tried it.

																																																																																												Ere entering upon the subject of Fossil Whales, I present my
																																																																																												credentials as a geologist, by stating that in my miscellaneous time I
																																																																																												have been a stone-mason, and also a great digger of ditches, canals and
																																																																																												wells, wine-vaults, cellars, and cisterns of all sorts. Likewise, by
																																																																																												way of preliminary, I desire to remind the reader, that while in the
																																																																																												earlier geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now
																																																																																												almost completely extinct; the subsequent relics discovered in what are
																																																																																												called the Tertiary formations seem the connecting, or at any rate
																																																																																												intercepted links, between the antichronical creatures, and those whose
																																																																																												remote posterity are said to have entered the Ark; all the Fossil
																																																																																												Whales hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period, which is the
																																																																																												last preceding the superficial formations. And though none of them
																																																																																												precisely answer to any known species of the present time, they are yet
																																																																																												sufficiently akin000 miles of this world’s circumference, not an
																																																																																												inhabitable hand’s breadth of land was visible. Then the whole world
																																																																																												was the whale’s; and, king of creation, he left his wake along the
																																																																																												present lines of the Andes and the Himmalehs. Who can show a pedigree
																																																																																												like Leviathan? Ahab’s harpoon had shed older blood than the Pharaoh’s.
																																																																																												Methuselah seems a school-boy. I look round to shake hands with Shem. I
																																																																																												am horror-struck at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of the
																																																																																												unspeakable terrors of the whale, which, having been before all time,
																																																																																												must needs exist after all humane ages are over.

																																																																																												But not alone has this Leviathan left his pre-adamite traces in the
																																																																																												stereotype plates of nature, and in limestone and marl bequeathed his
																																																																																												ancient bust; but upon Egyptian tablets, whose antiquity seems to claim
																																																																																												for them an almost fossiliferous character, we find the unmistakable
																																																																																												print of his fin. In an apartment of the great temple of Denderah, some
																																																																																												fifty years ago, there was discovered upon the granite ceiling a
																																																																																												sculptured and painted planisphere, abounding in centaurs, griffins,
																																																																																												and dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial globe
																																																																																												of the moderns. Gliding among them, old Leviathan swam as of yore; was
																																																																																												there swimming in that planisphere, centuries before Solomon was
																																																																																												cradled.

																																																																																												Nor must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquity
																																																																																												of the whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down by
																																																																																												the venerable John Leo, the old Barbary traveller.

																																																																																												“Not far from the Sea-side, they have a Temple, the Rafters and Beams
																																																																																												of wothers which measured eight hundred feet in length—Rope
																																																																																												Walks and Thames Tunnels of Whales! And even in the days of Banks and
																																																																																												Solander, Cooke’s naturalists, we find a Danish member of the Academy
																																																																																												of Sciences setting down certain Iceland Whales (reydan-siskur, or
																																																																																												Wrinkled Bellies) at one hundred and twenty yards; that is, three
																																																																																												hundred and sixty feet. And Lacépède, the French naturalist, in his
																																																																																												elaborate history of whales, in the very beginning of his work (page
																																																																																												3), sets down the Right Whale at one hundred metres, three hundred and
																																																																																												twenty-eight feet. And this work was published so late as A.D. 1825.

																																																																																												But will any whaleman believe these stories? No. The whale of to-day is
																																																																																												as big as his ancestors in Pliny’s time. And if ever I go where Pliny
																																																																																												is, I, a whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so.
																																																																																												Because I cannot understand how it is, that while the Egyptian mummies
																																																																																												that were buried thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do not
																																																																																												measure so much in their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks;
																																																																																												and while the cattle and other animals sculptured on the oldest
																																																																																												Egyptian and Nineveh tablets, by the relative proportions in which they
																																																																																												are drawn, just acattered solitaries, yokes,
																																																																																												and pods, and schools of other days are now aggregated into vast but
																																																																																												widely separated, unfrequent armies. That is all. And equally
																																																																																												fallacious seems the conceit, that because the so-called whale-bone
																																																																																												whales no longer haunt many grounds in former years abounding with
																																																																																												them, hence that species also is declining. For they are only being
																																																																																												driven from promontory to cape; and if one coast is no longer enlivened
																																																																																												with their jets, then, be sure, some other and remoter strand has been
																																																																																												very recently startled by the unfamiliar spectacle.

																																																																																												Furthermore: concerning these last mentioned Leviathans, they have two
																																																																																												firm fortresses, which, in all human probability, will for ever remain
																																																																																												impregnable. And as upon the invasion of their valleys, the frosty
																																																																																												Swiss have retreated to their mountains; so, hunted from the savannas
																																																																																												and glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales can at last resort
																																																																																												to their Polar citadels, and diving under the ultimate glassy barriers
																																																																																												and walls there, come up among icy fields and floes; and in a charmed
																																																																																												circle of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from man.

																																																																																												But as perhaps fifty of these whale-bone whales are harpooned for one
																																																																																												cachalot, some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this
																																																																																												positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions.
																																																																																												But though for some time past a number of these whales, not less than
																																																																																												13,000, have been annually slain on the norântire, and to all appearances
																																																																																												lusty, yet Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy.

																																																																																												And, indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all his
																																																																																												pervading, mad recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to the
																																																																																												condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood. For it had not
																																																																																												been very long prior to the Pequod’s sailing from Nantucket, that he
																																																																																												had been found one night lying prone upon the ground, and insensible;
																																																																																												by some unknown, and seemingly inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, his
																																																																																												ivory limb having been so violently displaced, that it had stake-wise
																																																																																												smitten, and all but pierced his groin; nor was it without extreme
																																																																																												difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely cured.

																																																																																												Nor, at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all
																																																																																												the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of
																																																																																												a former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the most
																																																																																												poisonous reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as
																																																																																												the sweetest songster of the grove; so, equally with every felicity,
																																																																																												all miserable events do naturally beget their like. Yea, more than
																																																																																												equally, thought Ationary appeared before him, he bade him without
																																																																																												delay set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him
																																																																																												supplied with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which
																																																																																												had thus far been accumulated on the voyage, in order that a careful
																																																																																												selection of the stoutest, clearest-grained stuff might be secured.
																																																																																												This done, the carpenter received orders to have the leg completed that
																																																																																												night; and to provide all the fittings for it, independent of those
																																																																																												pertaining to the distrusted one in use. Moreover, the ship’s forge was
																																																																																												ordered to be hoisted out of its temporary idleness in the hold; and,
																																																																																												to accelerate the affair, the blacksmith was commanded to proceed at
																																																																																												once to the forging of whatever iron contrivances might be needed.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 107. The Carpenter.

																																																																																												Seat thyself sultanically among the moons of Saturn, and take high
																																																																																												abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder, a grandeur, and a woe. But
																																																																																												from the same point, take mankind in mass, and for the most part, they
																																																																																												seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both contemporary and hereditary.
																																																																																												But most humble though he was, and far from furnishing an example of
																																																																																												the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod’s carpenter was no duplicate;
																																																																																												hence, he now comes in person on this stage.

																																																																																												Like all sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belonging
																																																																																												to whaling vessels, he was, to a certain off-handed, practical extent,
																																																																																												alike experienced in numerous trades and callings colla more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal
																																																																																												stolidity as it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into the
																																																																																												surrounding infinite of things, that it seemed one with the general
																																																																																												stolidity discernible in the whole visible world; which while
																																																																																												pauselessly active in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace,
																																																																																												and ignores you, though you dig foundations for cathedrals. Yet was
																																																																																												this half-horrible stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an
																																																																																												all-ramifying heartlessness;—yet was it oddly dashed at times, with an
																																																																																												old, crutch-like, antediluvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreaked
																																																																																												now and then with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might have
																																																																																												served to pass the time during the midnight watch on the bearded
																																																																																												forecastle of Noah’s ark. Was it that this old carpenter had been a
																																																																																												life-long wanderer, whose much rolling, to and fro, not only had
																																																																																												gathered no moss; but what is more, had rubbed off whatever small
																																																																																												outward clingings might have originally pertained to him? He was a
																																																																																												stript abstract; an unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-born
																																																																																												babe; living without premeditated reference to this world or the next.
																																																																																												You might almost say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him
																																																																																												involved a sort of unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did
																																																																																												not seem to work so much by reason or by instinct, or simply because he
																																																																																												had been tutored to it, or byinish on. Time, time; if I but only had the
																																																																																												time, I could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever (_sneezes_)
																																																																																												scraped to a lady in a parlor. Those buckskin legs and calves of legs
																																																																																												I’ve seen in shop windows wouldn’t compare at all. They soak water,
																																																																																												they do; and of course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored
																																																																																												(_sneezes_) with washes and lotions, just like live legs. There; before
																																																																																												I saw it off, now, I must call his old Mogulship, and see whether the
																																																																																												length will be all right; too short, if anything, I guess. Ha! that’s
																																																																																												the heel; we are in luck; here he comes, or it’s somebody else, that’s
																																																																																												certain.

																																																																																												AHAB (_advancing_). (_During the ensuing scene, the carpenter continues
																																																																																												sneezing at times._)

																																																																																												Well, manmaker!

																																																																																												Just in time, sir. If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length.
																																																																																												Let me measure, sir.

																																																																																												Measured for a leg! good. Well, it’s not the first time. About it!
																																																																																												There; keep thy finger on it. This is a cogent vice thou hast here,
																																																																																												carpenter; let me feel its grip once. So, so; it does pinch some.

																																																																																												Oh, sir, it will break bones—beware, beware!

																																																																																												No fear; I like a good grip; I like to feel something in this slippery
																																																																																												world that can hold, man. What’s Promethow, here is only one distinct leg to the eye, yet two to the
																																																																																												soul. Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there, there to
																																																																																												a hair, do I. Is’t a riddle?

																																																																																												I should humbly call it a poser, sir.

																																																																																												Hist, then. How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing
																																																																																												may not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where
																																																																																												thou now standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite? In thy most
																																																																																												solitary hours, then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers? Hold, don’t
																																																																																												speak! And if I still feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be
																																																																																												now so long dissolved; then, why mayst not thou, carpenter, feel the
																																																																																												fiery pains of hell for ever, and without a body? Hah!

																																																																																												Good Lord! Truly, sir, if it comes to that, I must calculate over
																																																																																												again; I think I didn’t carry a small figure, sir.

																																																																																												Look ye, pudding-heads should never grant premises.—How long before the
																																																																																												leg is done?

																																																																																												Perhaps an hour, sir.

																																																																																												Bungle away at it then, and bring it to me (_turns to go_). Oh, Life!
																																																																																												Here I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing debtor to this
																																																																																												blockhead for a bone to stand on! Cursed be that mortal
																																																																																												inter-indebtedness which will not do away with ledgers. I would be free
																																																																																												as air; and I’m down in the whole world’s books. I am so rich, I could
																																																																																												haleakage in the
																																																																																												precious cargo.

																																																																																												Now, from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and
																																																																																												the Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from
																																																																																												the China waters into the Pacific. And so Starbuck found Ahab with a
																																																																																												general chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him; and
																																																																																												another separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the
																																																																																												Japanese islands—Niphon, Matsmai, and Sikoke. With his snow-white new
																																																																																												ivory leg braced against the screwed leg of his table, and with a long
																																																																																												pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his hand, the wondrous old man, with
																																																																																												his back to the gangway door, was wrinkling his brow, and tracing his
																																																																																												old courses again.

																																																																																												“Who’s there?” hearing the footstep at the door, but not turning round
																																																																																												to it. “On deck! Begone!”

																																																																																												“Captain Ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir.
																																																																																												We must up Burtons and break out.”

																																																																																												“Up Burtons and break out? Now that we are nearing Japan; heave-to here
																																																																																												for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?”

																																																																																												“Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make
																																																																																												good in a year. What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth
																																																																																												saving, sir.”

																																																																																												ât in the main-hold.”

																																																																																												It were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting
																																																																																												Starbuck, Ahab thus acted. It may have been a flash of honesty in him;
																																																																																												or mere prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously
																																																																																												forbade the slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient,
																																																																																												in the important chief officer of his ship. However it was, his orders
																																																																																												were executed; and the Burtons were hoisted.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 110. Queequeg in His Coffin.

																																																																																												Upon searching, it was found that the casks last struck into the hold
																																																																																												were perfectly sound, and that the leak must be further off. So, it
																																																																																												being calm weather, they broke out deeper and deeper, disturbing the
																																																																																												slumbers of the huge ground-tier butts; and from that black midnight
																																																																																												sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above. So deep did they
																																																																																												go; and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the lowermost
																																																																																												puncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone
																																																																																												cask containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted
																																																																																												placards, vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood.
																																																																																												Tierce after tierce, too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of
																																																																																												staves, and iron bundles of hoops, were h in his
																																																																																												swaying hammock, and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to his
																																																																																												final rest, and the ocean’s invisible flood-tide lifted him higher and
																																																																																												higher towards his destined heaven.

																																																																																												Not a man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself,
																																																																																												what he thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favour he
																																																																																												asked. He called one to him in the grey morning watch, when the day was
																																																																																												just breaking, and taking his hand, said that while in Nantucket he had
																																																																																												chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood, like the rich
																																																																																												war-wood of his native isle; and upon inquiry, he had learned that all
																																																																																												whalemen who died in Nantucket, were laid in those same dark canoes,
																																																																																												and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for it was
																																																																																												not unlike the custom of his own race, who, after embalming a dead
																																																																																												warrior, stretched him out in his canoe, and so left him to be floated
																																																																																												away to the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that the
																																																																																												stars are isles, but that far beyond all visible horizons, their own
																																																																																												mild, uncontinented seas, interflow with the blue heavens; and so form
																																																																																												the white breakers of the milky way. He added, that he shuddered at the
																																																																																												thought of being buried in his hammock, according to the usual
																																																																																												sea-custom, tossed like something vile to the death-devouring sharks.
																																																																																												No: he desired a canohere lay
																																																																																												Queequeg in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in
																																																																																												view. “Rarmai” (it will do; it is easy), he murmured at last, and
																																																																																												signed to be replaced in his hammock.

																																																																																												But ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily hovering near by all
																																																																																												this while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with soft sobbings, took
																																																																																												him by the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine.

																																																																																												“Poor rover! will ye never have done with all this weary roving? where
																																																																																												go ye now? But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where
																																																																																												the beaches are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little
																																																																																												errand for me? Seek out one Pip, who’s now been missing long: I think
																																																																																												he’s in those far Antilles. If ye find him, then comfort him; for he
																																																																																												must be very sad; for look! he’s left his tambourine behind;—I found
																																																																																												it. Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! Now, Queequeg, die; and I’ll beat ye your
																																																																																												dying march.”

																																																																																												“I have heard,” murmured Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, “that in
																																																																																												violent fevers, men, all ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues; and
																																																																																												that when the mystery is probed, it turns out always that in their
																																																																																												wholly forgotten childhood those ancient tongues had been really sbeen the work of a departed prophet
																																																																																												and seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic marks, had written
																																																																																												out on his body a complete theory of the heavens and the earth, and a
																																																																																												mystical treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that Queequeg in
																																																																																												his own proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous work in one
																																																																																												volume; but whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his own
																																																																																												live heart beat against them; and these mysteries were therefore
																																																																																												destined in the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon
																																																																																												they were inscribed, and so be unsolved to the last. And this thought
																																																																																												it must have been which suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his,
																																																																																												when one morning turning away from surveying poor Queequeg—“Oh,
																																																																																												devilish tantalization of the gods!”


																																																																																												CHAPTER 111. The Pacific.

																																																																																												When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged at last upon the great
																																																																																												South Sea; were it not for other things, I could have greeted my dear
																																																																																												Pacific with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication of my
																																																																																												youth was answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a
																																																																																												thousand leagues of blue.

																																																																																												There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea, whose gently
																																																																																												awful stirrings seem to Nevertheless, this old man’s was a
																																																																																												patient hammer wielded by a patient arm. No murmur, no impatience, no
																																																																																												petulance did come from him. Silent, slow, and solemn; bowing over
																																																																																												still further his chronically broken back, he toiled away, as if toil
																																																																																												were life itself, and the heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beating
																																																																																												of his heart. And so it was.—Most miserable!

																																																																																												A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing
																																																																																												yawing in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the
																																																																																												curiosity of the mariners. And to the importunity of their persisted
																																																																																												questionings he had finally given in; and so it came to pass that every
																																																																																												one now knew the shameful story of his wretched fate.

																																																																																												Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter’s midnight, on the road
																																																																																												running between two country towns, the blacksmith half-stupidly felt
																																																																																												the deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge in a leaning,
																																																																																												dilapidated barn. The issue was, the loss of the extremities of both
																																																																																												feet. Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four
																																																																																												acts of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied
																																																																																												fifth act of the grief of his life’s drama.

																																																																																												He was an old man, who wonderful, new-life adventures; and from the hearts of
																																																																																												infinite Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing to them—“Come hither,
																																																																																												broken-hearted; here is another life without the guilt of intermediate
																																																																																												death; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them. Come
																																																																																												hither! bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred and
																																																																																												abhorring, landed world, is more oblivious than death. Come hither! put
																																																																																												up _thy_ gravestone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, till
																																																																																												we marry thee!”

																																																																																												Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sunrise, and by
																																																																																												fall of eve, the blacksmith’s soul responded, Aye, I come! And so Perth
																																																																																												went a-whaling.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 113. The Forge.

																																																																																												With matted beard, and swathed in a bristling shark-skin apron, about
																																																																																												mid-day, Perth was standing between his forge and anvil, the latter
																																																																																												placed upon an iron-wood log, with one hand holding a pike-head in the
																																																																																												coals, and with the other at his forge’s lungs, when Captain Ahab came
																																																																																												along, carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking leathern bag. While
																																																																																												yet a little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused; till at last,
																																																																																												Perth, withdrawining the last one. “Work that over again, Perth.”

																																																																																												This done, Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one, when
																																																																																												Ahab stayed his hand, and said he would weld his own iron. As, then,
																																																																																												with regular, gasping hems, he hammered on the anvil, Perth passing to
																																																																																												him the glowing rods, one after the other, and the hard pressed forge
																																																																																												shooting up its intense straight flame, the Parsee passed silently, and
																																																																																												bowing over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking some curse or
																																																																																												some blessing on the toil. But, as Ahab looked up, he slid aside.

																																																																																												“What’s that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?” muttered
																																																																																												Stubb, looking on from the forecastle. “That Parsee smells fire like a
																																																																																												fusee; and smells of it himself, like a hot musket’s powder-pan.”

																																																																																												At last the shank, in one complete rod, received its final heat; and as
																																																																																												Perth, to temper it, plunged it all hissing into the cask of water near
																																																																																												by, the scalding steam shot up into Ahab’s bent face.

																																																																																												“Would’st thou brand me, Perth?” wincing for a moment with the pain;
																																																																																												“have I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?”

																																																																																												“Pray God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab. Is not this
																																																																																												harpoon for the White Whale?”

																																																																																												“For the white fiend! But n; afloat all day upon smooth, slow
																																																																																												heaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a birch canoe; and so
																																																																																												sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that like hearth-stone
																																																																																												cats they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of dreamy
																																																																																												quietude, when beholding the tranquil beauty and brilliancy of the
																																																																																												ocean’s skin, one forgets the tiger heart that pants beneath it; and
																																																																																												would not willingly remember, that this velvet paw but conceals a
																																																																																												remorseless fang.

																																																																																												These are the times, when in his whale-boat the rover softly feels a
																																																																																												certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the sea; that he
																																																																																												regards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship revealing
																																																																																												only the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not through high
																																																																																												rolling waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when
																																																																																												the western emigrants’ horses only show their erected ears, while their
																																																																																												hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.

																																																																																												The long-drawn virgin vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these
																																																																																												there steals the hush, the hum; you almost swear that play-wearied
																																																																																												children lie sleeping in these solitudes, in some gler rigging, on every side. Sideways
																																																																																												lashed in each of her three basketed tops were two barrels of sperm;
																																																																																												above which, in her top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender breakers of
																																																																																												the same precious fluid; and nailed to her main truck was a brazen
																																																																																												lamp.

																																																																																												As was afterwards learned, the Bachelor had met with the most
																																																																																												surprising success; all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in
																																																																																												the same seas numerous other vessels had gone entire months without
																																																																																												securing a single fish. Not only had barrels of beef and bread been
																																																																																												given away to make room for the far more valuable sperm, but additional
																																																																																												supplemental casks had been bartered for, from the ships she had met;
																																																																																												and these were stowed along the deck, and in the captain’s and
																																																																																												officers’ state-rooms. Even the cabin table itself had been knocked
																																																																																												into kindling-wood; and the cabin mess dined off the broad head of an
																																																																																												oil-butt, lashed down to the floor for a centrepiece. In the
																																																																																												forecastle, the sailors had actually caulked and pitched their chests,
																																																																																												and filled them; it was humorously added, that the cook had clapped a
																																																																																												head on his largest boiler, and filled it; that the steward hadheeding their gaze for
																																																																																												the lively revelry they were in. And as Ahab, leaning over the
																																																																																												taffrail, eyed the homeward-bound craft, he took from his pocket a
																																																																																												small vial of sand, and then looking from the ship to the vial, seemed
																																																																																												thereby bringing two remote associations together, for that vial was
																																																																																												filled with Nantucket soundings.


																																																																																												CHAPTER 116. The Dying Whale.

																																																																																												Not seldom in this life, when, on the right side, fortune’s favourites
																																																																																												sail close by us, we, though all adroop before, catch somewhat of the
																																																																																												rushing breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging sails fill out. So seemed
																																																																																												it with the Pequod. For next day after encountering the gay Bachelor,
																																																																																												whales were seen and four were slain; and one of them by Ahab.

																																																																																												It was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of the
																																																																																												crimson fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky,
																																																																																												sun and whale both stilly died together; then, such a sweetness and
																																																																																												such plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy
																																																																																												air, that it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent
																																																																																												valleys of the Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned
																																																																																												sailor, had gone to sea, freighted with these vesper hymns.

																																																																																												Soothed again, but only soothed to deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sterned
																																																																																												off pectrally played
																																																																																												round the whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails. A
																																																																																												sound like the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven
																																																																																												ghosts of Gomorrah, ran shuddering through the air.

																																																																																												Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to face, saw the Parsee; and
																																																																																												hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in a
																																																																																												flooded world. “I have dreamed it again,” said he.

																																																																																												“Of the hearses? Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor
																																																																																												coffin can be thine?”

																																																																																												“And who are hearsed that die on the sea?”

																																																																																												“But I said, old man, that ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two
																																																																																												hearses must verily be seen by thee on the sea; the first not made by
																																																																																												mortal hands; and the visible wood of the last one must be grown in
																																																																																												America.”

																																																																																												“Aye, aye! a strange sight that, Parsee:—a hearse and its plumes
																																																																																												floating over the ocean with the waves for the pall-bearers. Ha! Such a
																																																																																												sight we shall not soon see.”

																																																																																												“Believe it or not, thou canst not die till it be seen, old man.”

																																																																																												“And what was that saying about thyself?”

																																																																																												“Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy pilot.”

																																																																																												“And when thou art so gone being
																																																																																												the objects on the unknown, thither side of thee, thou sun!”

																																																																																												Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the other, its
																																																																																												numerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and muttered:
																																																																																												“Foolish toy! babies’ plaything of haughty Admirals, and Commodores,
																																																																																												and Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might; but
																																																																																												what after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where
																																																																																												thou thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that
																																																																																												holds thee: no! not one jot more! Thou canst not tell where one drop of
																																																																																												water or one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy
																																																																																												impotence thou insultest the sun! Science! Curse thee, thou vain toy;
																																																																																												and cursed be all the things that cast man’s eyes aloft to that heaven,
																																																																																												whose live vividness but scorches him, as these old eyes are even now
																																																																																												scorched with thy light, O sun! Level by nature to this earth’s horizon
																																																																																												are the glances of man’s eyes; not shot from the crown of his head, as
																																																																																												if God had meant him to gaze on his firmament. Curse thee, thou
																																																																																												quadrant!” dashing it to the deck, “no longer will I guide my eavery top of the cranes, the windward quarter boat (Ahab’s) did
																																																																																												not escape. A great rolling sea, dashing high up against the reeling
																																																																																												ship’s high teetering side, stove in the boat’s bottom at the stern,
																																																																																												and left it again, all dripping through like a sieve.

																																																																																												“Bad work, bad work! Mr. Starbuck,” said Stubb, regarding the wreck,
																																																																																												“but the sea will have its way. Stubb, for one, can’t fight it. You
																																																																																												see, Mr. Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps,
																																																																																												all round the world it runs, and then comes the spring! But as for me,
																																																																																												all the start I have to meet it, is just across the deck here. But
																																																																																												never mind; it’s all in fun: so the old song says;”—(_sings_.)


																																																																																												  Oh! jolly is the gale, And a joker is the whale, A’ flourishin’ his
																																																																																												    tail,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the
																																																																																												      Ocean, oh!

																																																																																												        The scud all a flyin’, That’s his flip only foamin’; When he stirs in
																																																																																													  the spicin’,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad,
																																																																																													    is the Ocean, oh!

																																																																																													      Thunder splits the ships, But he only smacks his lips, A tastin’ of
																																																																																													        this flip,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky’s have fair play here, though we be the
																																																																																														weaker side. Yet I’ll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and
																																																																																														Andes, that all the world may be secured; but out on privileges! Let
																																																																																														them be, sir.”

																																																																																														“Look aloft!” cried Starbuck. “The corpusants! the corpusants!”

																																																																																														All the yard-arms were tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each
																																																																																														tri-pointed lightning-rod-end with three tapering white flames, each of
																																																																																														the three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air, like
																																																																																														three gigantic wax tapers before an altar.

																																																																																														“Blast the boat! let it go!” cried Stubb at this instant, as a swashing
																																																																																														sea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale violently
																																																																																														jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing. “Blast it!”—but slipping
																																																																																														backward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and
																																																																																														immediately shifting his tone he cried—“The corpusants have mercy on us
																																																																																														all!”

																																																																																														To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance of
																																																																																														the calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses
																																																																																														from the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teeter over to a seething
																																																																																														sea; but in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a cg right arm,
																																																																																														he stood erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.

																																																																																														“Oh! thou clear spirit of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian
																																																																																														once did worship, till in the sacramental act so burned by thee, that
																																																																																														to this hour I bear the scar; I now know thee, thou clear spirit, and I
																																																																																														now know that thy right worship is defiance. To neither love nor
																																																																																														reverence wilt thou be kind; and e’en for hate thou canst but kill; and
																																																																																														all are killed. No fearless fool now fronts thee. I own thy speechless,
																																																																																														placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will
																																																																																														dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me. In the midst of
																																																																																														the personified impersonal, a personality stands here. Though but a
																																																																																														point at best; whencesoe’er I came; wheresoe’er I go; yet while I
																																																																																														earthly live, the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal
																																																																																														rights. But war is pain, and hate is woe. Come in thy lowest form of
																																																																																														love, and I will kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as mere
																																																																																														supernal power; and though thou launchest navies of full-freighted
																																																																																														worlds, there’s that in here that still remains indifferent. Oh, thou
																																																																																														clear spirit, of thy fire thou madest me, and like a true childhis aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dart
																																																																																														that he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke:—

																																																																																														“All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and
																																																																																														heart, soul, and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound. And that ye
																																																																																														may know to what tune this heart beats; look ye here; thus I blow out
																																																																																														the last fear!” And with one blast of his breath he extinguished the
																																																																																														flame.

																																																																																														As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain, men fly the neighborhood of
																																																																																														some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and strength but render it
																																																																																														so much the more unsafe, because so much the more a mark for
																																																																																														thunderbolts; so at those last words of Ahab’s many of the mariners did
																																																																																														run from him in a terror of dismay.


																																																																																														CHAPTER 120. The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch.

																																																																																														_Ahab standing by the helm. Starbuck approaching him._

																																																																																														“We must send down the main-top-sail yard, sir. The band is working
																																																																																														loose and the lee lift is half-stranded. Shall I strike it, sir?”

																																																																																														“Strike nothing; lash it. If I had sky-sail poles, I’d sway them up
																																																																																														now.”

																																																																																														“Sir!—in God’s name!—sir?”

																																																																																														“Well.”

																																																																																														“The anchors are working, sir. Shall I gt’s
																																																																																														a fact. And I am about drenched with this spray. Never mind; catch the
																																																																																														turn there, and pass it. Seems to me we are lashing down these anchors
																																																																																														now as if they were never going to be used again. Tying these two
																																																																																														anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man’s hands behind him. And
																																																																																														what big generous hands they are, to be sure. These are your iron
																																																																																														fists, hey? What a hold they have, too! I wonder, Flask, whether the
																																																																																														world is anchored anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long
																																																																																														cable, though. There, hammer that knot down, and we’ve done. So; next
																																																																																														to touching land, lighting on deck is the most satisfactory. I say,
																																																																																														just wring out my jacket skirts, will ye? Thank ye. They laugh at
																																																																																														long-togs so, Flask; but seems to me, a long tailed coat ought always
																																																																																														to be worn in all storms afloat. The tails tapering down that way,
																																																																																														serve to carry off the water, d’ye see. Same with cocked hats; the
																																																																																														cocks form gable-end eave-troughs, Flask. No more monkey-jackets and
																																																																																														tarpaulins for me; I must mount a swallow-tail, and drive down a
																																																																																														beaver; so. Halloa! whew! there goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord,
																																																																																														Lord, that the winds ts of the cabin made a certain humming silence
																																																																																														to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of the
																																																																																														elements. The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as
																																																																																														they stood upright against the forward bulkhead. Starbuck was an
																																																																																														honest, upright man; but out of Starbuck’s heart, at that instant when
																																																																																														he saw the muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so
																																																																																														blent with its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he
																																																																																														hardly knew it for itself.

																																																																																														“He would have shot me once,” he murmured, “yes, there’s the very
																																																																																														musket that he pointed at me;—that one with the studded stock; let me
																																																																																														touch it—lift it. Strange, that I, who have handled so many deadly
																																																																																														lances, strange, that I should shake so now. Loaded? I must see. Aye,
																																																																																														aye; and powder in the pan;—that’s not good. Best spill it?—wait. I’ll
																																																																																														cure myself of this. I’ll hold the musket boldly while I think.—I come
																																																																																														to report a fair wind to him. But how fair? Fair for death and
																																																																																														doom,—_that’s_ fair for Moby Dick. It’s a fair wind that’s only fair
																																																																																														for that accursed fish.—The very tube he pointed at me!—the very one;
																																																																																														_this_ one—I holding with an angel; but turning from the door, he
																																																																																														placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.

																																																																																														“He’s too sound asleep, Mr. Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell
																																																																																														him. I must see to the deck here. Thou know’st what to say.”


																																																																																														CHAPTER 124. The Needle.

																																																																																														Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea rolled in long slow billows of
																																																																																														mighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod’s gurgling track, pushed her on
																																																																																														like giants’ palms outspread. The strong, unstaggering breeze abounded
																																																																																														so, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails; the whole world
																																																																																														boomed before the wind. Muffled in the full morning light, the
																																																																																														invisible sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place;
																																																																																														where his bayonet rays moved on in stacks. Emblazonings, as of crowned
																																																																																														Babylonian kings and queens, reigned over everything. The sea was as a
																																																																																														crucible of molten gold, that bubblingly leaps with light and heat.

																																																																																														Long maintaining an enchanted silence, Ahab stood apart; and every time
																																																																																														the tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to
																																																																																														eye the bright sun’s rays produced ahead; and when she profoundly
																																																																																														settled by tdegree seemed then to be sharing his
																																																																																														feelings—likewise unmurmuringly acquiesced. As for the men, though some
																																																																																														of them lowly rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear
																																																																																														of Fate. But as ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almost
																																																																																														wholly unimpressed; or if impressed, it was only with a certain
																																																																																														magnetism shot into their congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab’s.

																																																																																														For a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries. But
																																																																																														chancing to slip with his ivory heel, he saw the crushed copper
																																																																																														sight-tubes of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck.

																																																																																														“Thou poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun’s pilot! yesterday I wrecked
																																																																																														thee, and to-day the compasses would fain have wrecked me. So, so. But
																																																																																														Ahab is lord over the level loadstone yet. Mr. Starbuck—a lance without
																																																																																														a pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of the sail-maker’s needles.
																																																																																														Quick!”

																																																																																														Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse dictating the thing he was now about
																																																																																														to do, were certain prudential motives, whose object might have been to
																																																																																														revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill, in a
																																																																																														matter so wondrous as that omagnet
																																																																																														scene, and he remembered how his quadrant was no more, and recalled his
																																																																																														frantic oath about the level log and line. The ship was sailing
																																																																																														plungingly; astern the billows rolled in riots.

																																																																																														“Forward, there! Heave the log!”

																																																																																														Two seamen came. The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman.
																																																																																														“Take the reel, one of ye, I’ll heave.”

																																																																																														They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship’s lee side, where the
																																																																																														deck, with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into
																																																																																														the creamy, sidelong-rushing sea.

																																																																																														The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by the projecting
																																																																																														handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool of line revolved, so
																																																																																														stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab advanced to
																																																																																														him.

																																																																																														Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty
																																																																																														turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the old
																																																																																														Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to
																																																																																														speak.

																																																																																														“Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet have
																																																																																														spoiled it.”

																																																																																														“’Twill hold, old gentleman. Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee?
																																																																																														Thou seem’st to hold. Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not thou it.”

																																																																																														“I hold the spool, sir. But just as my captain says. With these grey
																																																																																														hairs of mine ’tis not worth while disputing, ’specially with a
																																																																																														superior, who’ll ne’er confess.”

																																																																																														“What’s that? There now’s as. Here, boy; Ahab’s cabin shall be Pip’s
																																																																																														home henceforth, while Ahab lives. Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy;
																																																																																														thou art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings. Come, let’s
																																																																																														down.”

																																																																																														“What’s this? here’s velvet shark-skin,” intently gazing at Ahab’s
																																																																																														hand, and feeling it. “Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a thing
																																																																																														as this, perhaps he had ne’er been lost! This seems to me, sir, as a
																																																																																														man-rope; something that weak souls may hold by. Oh, sir, let old Perth
																																																																																														now come and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the
																																																																																														white, for I will not let this go.”

																																																																																														“Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse
																																																																																														horrors than are here. Come, then, to my cabin. Lo! ye believers in
																																																																																														gods all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you! see the omniscient gods
																																																																																														oblivious of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not
																																																																																														what he does, yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude. Come!
																																																																																														I feel prouder leading thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an
																																																																																														Emperor’s!”

																																																																																														“There go two daft ones now,” muttered the old Manxman. “One daft with
																																																																																														strength, the other daft with weakness. But hef white bubbles in the blue of the
																																																																																														sea.

																																																																																														The life-buoy—a long slender cask—was dropped from the stern, where it
																																																																																														always hung obedient to a cunning spring; but no hand rose to seize it,
																																																																																														and the sun having long beat upon this cask it had shrunken, so that it
																																																																																														slowly filled, and that parched wood also filled at its every pore; and
																																																																																														the studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the bottom, as if to
																																																																																														yield him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one.

																																																																																														And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look out
																																																																																														for the White Whale, on the White Whale’s own peculiar ground; that man
																																																																																														was swallowed up in the deep. But few, perhaps, thought of that at the
																																																																																														time. Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at this event, at
																																																																																														least as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a foreshadowing of
																																																																																														evil in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already presaged.
																																																																																														They declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks they
																																																																																														had heard the night before. But again the old Manxman said nay.

																																																																																														The lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see
																																																																																														to it; but as no cask of sufficient liver mind. We workers in woods make bridal-bedsteads and
																																																																																														card-tables, as well as coffins and hearses. We work by the month, or
																																																																																														by the job, or by the profit; not for us to ask the why and wherefore
																																																																																														of our work, unless it be too confounded cobbling, and then we stash it
																																																																																														if we can. Hem! I’ll do the job, now, tenderly. I’ll have me—let’s
																																																																																														see—how many in the ship’s company, all told? But I’ve forgotten. Any
																																																																																														way, I’ll have me thirty separate, Turk’s-headed life-lines, each three
																																																																																														feet long hanging all round to the coffin. Then, if the hull go down,
																																																																																														there’ll be thirty lively fellows all fighting for one coffin, a sight
																																																																																														not seen very often beneath the sun! Come hammer, caulking-iron,
																																																																																														pitch-pot, and marling-spike! Let’s to it.”


																																																																																														CHAPTER 127. The Deck.

																																																																																														_The coffin laid upon two line-tubs, between the vice-bench and the
																																																																																														open hatchway; the Carpenter caulking its seams; the string of twisted
																																																																																														oakum slowly unwinding from a large roll of it placed in the bosom of
																																																																																														his frock.—Ahab comes slowly from the cabin-gangway, and hears Pip
																																																																																														following him._

																																																																																														“Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently. He goes! Not this hand
																																																																																														complies with my humor more genially than that boy.—Middle aisle of a
																																																																																														church! What’s here?”

																																																																																														“Life-buoy, sir. Mr. Starbuck’s orders. Oh, look, sir! Beware the
																																																																																														hatchway!”

																																																																																														“Thank ye, man.oughts? Here
																																																																																														now’s the very dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made the
																																																																																														expressive sign of the help and hope of most endangered life. A
																																																																																														life-buoy of a coffin! Does it go further? Can it be that in some
																																																																																														spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but an immortality-preserver!
																																																																																														I’ll think of that. But no. So far gone am I in the dark side of earth,
																																																																																														that its other side, the theoretic bright one, seems but uncertain
																																																																																														twilight to me. Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursed
																																																																																														sound? I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return again.
																																																																																														Now, then, Pip, we’ll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous
																																																																																														philosophies from thee! Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds
																																																																																														must empty into thee!”


																																																																																														CHAPTER 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel.

																																																																																														Next day, a large ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down
																																																																																														upon the Pequod, all her spars thickly clustering with men. At the time
																																																																																														the Pequod was making good speed through the water; but as the
																																																																																														broad-winged windward stranger shot nigh to her, the boastful sails all
																																																																																														fell together as blank bladders that are burst, and all life fled from
																																																																																														the smitten hull.

																																																																																														“Bad news; she brings bad news,” muttered the old Manxman. But ere her
																																																																																														commander, who, with trumpet to mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he
																																																																																														could hopefully hail, Ahab’s voice was heard.

																																																																																														“Hast seen the White Whale?”

																																																																																														“Aye, yesterday. Have ye seen a whale-boat adrift?”

																																																																																														Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this unexpected question;
																																																																																														and would then have fain boarded the stranger, when the sizon, as it were.

																																																																																														“I will wager something now,” whispered Stubb to Flask, “that some one
																																																																																														in that missing boat wore off that Captain’s best coat; mayhap, his
																																																																																														watch—he’s so cursed anxious to get it back. Who ever heard of two
																																																																																														pious whale-ships cruising after one missing whale-boat in the height
																																																																																														of the whaling season? See, Flask, only see how pale he looks—pale in
																																																																																														the very buttons of his eyes—look—it wasn’t the coat—it must have been
																																																																																														the—”

																																																																																														“My boy, my own boy is among them. For God’s sake—I beg, I
																																																																																														conjure”—here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab, who thus far had
																																																																																														but icily received his petition. “For eight-and-forty hours let me
																																																																																														charter your ship—I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it—if
																																																																																														there be no other way—for eight-and-forty hours only—only that—you
																																																																																														must, oh, you must, and you _shall_ do this thing.”

																																																																																														“His son!” cried Stubb, “oh, it’s his son he’s lost! I take back the
																																																																																														coat and watch—what says Ahab? We must save that boy.”

																																																																																														“He’s drowned with the rest on ’em, last night,” said the old Manx
																																																																																														sailor standing behind them; “I heard; all of ye heard their spirits.”

																																																																																														Now, as it shoot,
																																																																																														however small, on the sea. This way and that her yards were swung
																																																																																														round; starboard and larboard, she continued to tack; now she beat
																																																																																														against a head sea; and again it pushed her before it; while all the
																																																																																														while, her masts and yards were thickly clustered with men, as three
																																																																																														tall cherry trees, when the boys are cherrying among the boughs.

																																																																																														But by her still halting course and winding, woeful way, you plainly
																																																																																														saw that this ship that so wept with spray, still remained without
																																																																																														comfort. She was Rachel, weeping for her children, because they were
																																																																																														not.


																																																																																														CHAPTER 129. The Cabin.

																																																																																														(_Ahab moving to go on deck; Pip catches him by the hand to follow._)

																																																																																														“Lad, lad, I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab now. The hour is
																																																																																														coming when Ahab would not scare thee from him, yet would not have thee
																																																																																														by him. There is that in thee, poor lad, which I feel too curing to my
																																																																																														malady. Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes my most
																																																																																														desired health. Do thou abide below here, where they shall serve thee,
																																																																																														as if thou wert the captain. Aye, lad, thou shalt sit here in my own
																																																																																														screwed chair; another screw to it, thou must be.”

																																																																																														“No, no, no! ye have not a whole body, sir; do ye but use poor me for
																																																																																														your one lost leg; only tread upon me, sir; I ask no more, so I remain
																																																																																														a part of ye.”

																																																																																														“Oh! spite of million villains, this makes me a bigot in the fadeless
																																																																																														fidelity of man!—and a black! and crazy!—but methinks like-cures-like
																																																																																														applies to him too; he grows so sane again.”

																																																																																														“They tell me, sir, that Stubb did once desert poor little Pip, whose
																																																																																														drowned bones now show white, for all the blackness of his living skin.
																																																																																														But I will never desert ye, sir, as Stubb did him. Sir, I must go with
																																																																																														ye.”

																																																																																														“If thou speakest thus to me much moreuntered
																																																																																														Moby Dick;—and now that all his successive meetings with various ships
																																																																																														contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac indifference with which
																																																																																														the white whale tore his hunters, whether sinning or sinned against;
																																																																																														now it was that there lurked a something in the old man’s eyes, which
																																																																																														it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see. As the unsetting
																																																																																														polar star, which through the livelong, arctic, six months’ night
																																																																																														sustains its piercing, steady, central gaze; so Ahab’s purpose now
																																																																																														fixedly gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew. It
																																																																																														domineered above them so, that all their bodings, doubts, misgivings,
																																																																																														fears, were fain to hide beneath their souls, and not sprout forth a
																																																																																														single spear or leaf.

																																																																																														In this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural,
																																																																																														vanished. Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no more
																																																																																														strove to check one. Alike, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, seemed
																																																																																														ground to finest dust, and powdered, for the time, in the clamped
																																																																																														mortar of Ahab’s iron soul. Like machines, they dumbly moved about the
																																																																																														deck, ever conscious that the old man’s despot eye was on them.

																																																																																														But did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours; when
																																																																																														he thought no glance but one was on him; then you would have seen that
																																																																																														even as Ahab’s eyes so awed the crew’s, the inscrutable Parsee’s glance
																																																																																														awed his; or somehow, at least, in some wild way, at times affected it.
																																																																																														Such ae his abandoned substance.

																																																																																														And yet, somehow, did Ahab—in his own proper self, as daily, hourly,
																																																																																														and every instant, commandingly revealed to his subordinates,—Ahab
																																																																																														seemed an independent lord; the Parsee but his slave. Still again both
																																																																																														seemed yoked together, and an unseen tyrant driving them; the lean
																																																																																														shade siding the solid rib. For be this Parsee what he may, all rib and
																																																																																														keel was solid Ahab.

																																																																																														At the first faintest glimmering of the dawn, his iron voice was heard
																																																																																														from aft,—“Man the mast-heads!”—and all through the day, till after
																																																																																														sunset and after twilight, the same voice every hour, at the striking
																																																																																														of the helmsman’s bell, was heard—“What d’ye see?—sharp! sharp!”

																																																																																														But when three or four days had slided by, after meeting the
																																																																																														children-seeking Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen; the monomaniac
																																																																																														old man seemed distrustful of his crew’s fidelity; at least, of nearly
																																																																																														all except the Pagan harpooneers; he seemed to doubt, even, whether
																																																																																														Stubb and Flask might not willingly overlook the sight he sought. But
																																																																																														if these suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained from
																																																																																														verbally expressing them, however his actions might seem to hint them.

																																																																																														“I will have the first sight of the whale myself,”—he said. “Aye! Ahab
																																																																																														must have the doubloon!” andot to mark this wild bird; nor, indeed, would any one else have marked
																																																																																														it much, it being no uncommon circumstance; only now almost the least
																																																																																														heedful eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every
																																																																																														sight.

																																																																																														“Your hat, your hat, sir!” suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman, who
																																																																																														being posted at the mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, though
																																																																																														somewhat lower than his level, and with a deep gulf of air dividing
																																																																																														them.

																																																																																														But already the sable wing was before the old man’s eyes; the long
																																																																																														hooked bill at his head: with a scream, the black hawk darted away with
																																																																																														his prize.

																																																																																														An eagle flew thrice round Tarquin’s head, removing his cap to replace
																																																																																														it, and thereupon Tanaquil, his wife, declared that Tarquin would be
																																																																																														king of Rome. But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen
																																																																																														accounted good. Ahab’s hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on
																																																																																														and on with it; far in advance of the prow: and at last disappeared;
																																																																																														while from the point of that disappearance, a minute black spot was
																																																																																														dimly discerned, falling from that vast height into the sea.


																																																																																														CHAPTER 131. The Pequod Meets The Delight.

																																																																																														The intense Pequod sailed on; the rolling waves and days went by; the
																																																																																														life-buoy-coffin still lightly swung; and another ship, most miserably
																																																																																														misnamed the Delight, was descried. As she drew nigh, all eyes were
																																																																																														fixed upon her broad beams, called shears, which, in some
																																																																																														whaling-ships, cross the quarter-deck at the height of eight or nine
																																																																																														feet; serving to carry the spare, unrigged, or disabled boats.

																																																																																														Upon the stranger’s shears were beheld the shatt in the deeps, far down in the bottomless blue, rushed
																																																																																														mighty leviathans, sword-fish, and sharks; and these were the strong,
																																																																																														troubled, murderous thinkings of the masculine sea.

																																																																																														But though thus contrasting within, the contrast was only in shades and
																																																																																														shadows without; those two seemed one; it was only the sex, as it were,
																																																																																														that distinguished them.

																																																																																														Aloft, like a royal czar and king, the sun seemed giving this gentle
																																																																																														air to this bold and rolling sea; even as bride to groom. And at the
																																																																																														girdling line of the horizon, a soft and tremulous motion—most seen
																																																																																														here at the equator—denoted the fond, throbbing trust, the loving
																																																																																														alarms, with which the poor bride gave her bosom away.

																																																																																														Tied up and twisted; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles; haggardly firm
																																																																																														and unyielding; his eyes glowing like coals, that still glow in the
																																																																																														ashes of ruin; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the
																																																																																														morn; lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl’s
																																																																																														forehead of heaven.

																																																																																														Oh, immortal infancy, and innocency of the azure! Invisible winged
																																																																																														creatures that frolic all round us! Sweet childhood of air and sky! how
																																																																																														oblivious were ye of old Ahab’s close-coiled woe! But so have I seen
																																																																																														little Miriam and Martha, laughing-eyed elves, heedlessly gambol around
																																																																																														their old sire; sporting with the circle of singed locks which grew on
																																																																																														the marge of that burnt-out crater of his brain.

																																																																																														Slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle, Ahab leaned over the side
																																																																																														and watched how his shadow in the water sank and sank to his gaze, the
																																																																																														more and the more that he strove to pierce the profundity. But the
																																																																																														lovely aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to dispel, for a
																																																																																														moment, the cankerous thing in his sou—old fool, has old Ahab been! Why this strife of the chase?
																																																																																														why weary, and palsy the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance?
																																																																																														how the richer or better is Ahab now? Behold. Oh, Starbuck! is it not
																																																																																														hard, that with this weary load I bear, one poor leg should have been
																																																																																														snatched from under me? Here, brush this old hair aside; it blinds me,
																																																																																														that I seem to weep. Locks so grey did never grow but from out some
																																																																																														ashes! But do I look very old, so very, very old, Starbuck? I feel
																																																																																														deadly faint, bowed, and humped, as though I were Adam, staggering
																																																																																														beneath the piled centuries since Paradise. God! God! God!—crack my
																																																																																														heart!—stave my brain!—mockery! mockery! bitter, biting mockery of grey
																																																																																														hairs, have I lived enough joy to wear ye; and seem and feel thus
																																																																																														intolerably old? Close! stand close to me, Starbuck; let me look into a
																																																																																														human eye; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky; better than to
																																																																																														gaze upon God. By the green land; by the bright hearth-stone! this is
																																																																																														the magic glass, man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye. No, no;
																																																																																														stay on board, on board!—lower not when I do; when branded Ahab gives
																																																																																														chase to Moby Dick. That hazard shall not be thine. No, no! not with
																																																																																														the far away home I see in that eye!”

																																																																																														“Oh, my Captain! my Captain! noble soul! grand old heart, after all!
																																																																																														why should any one give chase to that hated fish! Away with me! let us
																																																																																														fly theserpse’s hue with despair, the Mate had stolen away.

																																																																																														Ahab crossed the deck to gaze over on the other side; but started at
																																																																																														two reflected, fixed eyes in the water there. Fedallah was motionlessly
																																																																																														leaning over the same rail.


																																																																																														CHAPTER 133. The Chase—First Day.

																																																																																														That night, in the mid-watch, when the old man—as his wont at
																																																																																														intervals—stepped forth from the scuttle in which he leaned, and went
																																																																																														to his pivot-hole, he suddenly thrust out his face fiercely, snuffing
																																																																																														up the sea air as a sagacious ship’s dog will, in drawing nigh to some
																																																																																														barbarous isle. He declared that a whale must be near. Soon that
																																																																																														peculiar odor, sometimes to a great distance given forth by the living
																																																																																														sperm whale, was palpable to all the watch; nor was any mariner
																																																																																														surprised when, after inspecting the compass, and then the dog-vane,
																																																																																														and then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as
																																																																																														possible, Ahab rapidly ordered the ship’s course to be slightly
																																																																																														altered, and the sail to be shortened.

																																																																																														The acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently vindicated
																																																																																														at daybreak, by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and
																																																																																														lengthwise ahead, smooth as oil, and resembling in the pleated watery
																																																																																														wrinkles bordering it, the polished metallic-like marks of some swift
																																																																																														tide-rip, at the mouth of a deep, rapid stream.

																																																																																														“Man the mast-heads! Call all hands!”

																																																																																														Thundering with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the forecastle
																																																																																														deck, Daggoo roused the sleepers with such judgment claps that they
																																																																																														seemed to exhale from the scuttle, so instantaneously did they appel that! Boats, boats!”

																																																																																														Soon all the boats but Starbuck’s were dropped; all the boat-sails
																																																																																														set—all the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness, shooting to
																																																																																														leeward; and Ahab heading the onset. A pale, death-glimmer lit up
																																																																																														Fedallah’s sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth.

																																																																																														Like noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea;
																																																																																														but only slowly they neared the foe. As they neared him, the ocean grew
																																																																																														still more smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a
																																																																																														noon-meadow, so serenely it spread. At length the breathless hunter
																																																																																														came so nigh his seemingly unsuspecting prey, that his entire dazzling
																																																																																														hump was distinctly visible, sliding along the sea as if an isolated
																																																																																														thing, and continually set in a revolving ring of finest, fleecy,
																																																																																														greenish foam. He saw the vast, involved wrinkles of the slightly
																																																																																														projecting head beyond. Before it, far out on the soft Turkish-rugged
																																																																																														waters, went the glistening white shadow from his broad, milky
																																																																																														forehead, a musical rippling playfully accompanying the shade; and
																																																																																														behind, the blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the moving
																																																																																														valley of his steady wake; and on either hand bright bubbles arose and
																																																																																														danced by his side. But these were broken again by the light toes of
																																																																																														hundreds of gay fowl softly feathering the sea, alternate with their
																																																																																														fitful flight; and like to some flag-staff rising from the  than man’s; Ahab could
																																																																																														discover no sign in the sea. But suddenly as he peered down and down
																																																																																														into its depths, he profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than a
																																																																																														white weasel, with wonderful celerity uprising, and magnifying as it
																																																																																														rose, till it turned, and then there were plainly revealed two long
																																																																																														crooked rows of white, glistening teeth, floating up from the
																																																																																														undiscoverable bottom. It was Moby Dick’s open mouth and scrolled jaw;
																																																																																														his vast, shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the sea.
																																																																																														The glittering mouth yawned beneath the boat like an open-doored marble
																																																																																														tomb; and giving one sidelong sweep with his steering oar, Ahab whirled
																																																																																														the craft aside from this tremendous apparition. Then, calling upon
																																																																																														Fedallah to change places with him, went forward to the bows, and
																																																																																														seizing Perth’s harpoon, commanded his crew to grasp their oars and
																																																																																														stand by to stern.

																																																																																														Now, by reason of this timely spinning round the boat upon its axis,
																																																																																														its bow, by anticipation, was made to face the whale’s head while yet
																																																																																														under water. But as if perceiving this stratagem, Moby Dick, with that
																																																																																														malicious intelligence ascribed to him, sidelingly transplanted
																																																																																														himself, as it were, in an instant, shooting his pleated head
																																																																																														lengthwise beneath the boat.

																																																																																														Through and through; through every plank and each rib, it thrilled forerleap its summit with their scud.

																																																																																														*This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale. It receives its
																																																																																														designation (pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminary
																																																																																														up-and-down poise of the whale-lance, in the exercise called
																																																																																														pitchpoling, previously described. By this motion the whale must best
																																																																																														and most comprehensively view whatever objects may be encircling him.

																																																																																														But soon resuming his horizontal attitude, Moby Dick swam swiftly round
																																																																																														and round the wrecked crew; sideways churning the water in his vengeful
																																																																																														wake, as if lashing himself up to still another and more deadly
																																																																																														assault. The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the
																																																																																														blood of grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus’s elephants in the
																																																																																														book of Maccabees. Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of the
																																																																																														whale’s insolent tail, and too much of a cripple to swim,—though he
																																																																																														could still keep afloat, even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that;
																																																																																														helpless Ahab’s head was seen, like a tossed bubble which the least
																																																																																														chance shock might burst. From the boat’s fragmentary stern, Fedallah
																																																																																														incuriously and mildly eyed him; the clinging crew, at the other
																																																																																														drifting end, could not succor him; more than enough was it for them to
																																																																																														look to themselves. For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale’s
																																																																																														aspect, and so planetarilyked oars. It was thus now.
																																																																																														But the added power of the boat did not equal the added power of the
																																																																																														whale, for he seemed to have treble-banked his every fin; swimming with
																																																																																														a velocity which plainly showed, that if now, under these
																																																																																														circumstances, pushed on, the chase would prove an indefinitely
																																																																																														prolonged, if not a hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for so long
																																																																																														a period, such an unintermitted, intense straining at the oar; a thing
																																																																																														barely tolerable only in some one brief vicissitude. The ship itself,
																																																																																														then, as it sometimes happens, offered the most promising intermediate
																																																																																														means of overtaking the chase. Accordingly, the boats now made for her,
																																																																																														and were soon swayed up to their cranes—the two parts of the wrecked
																																																																																														boat having been previously secured by her—and then hoisting everything
																																																																																														to her side, and stacking her canvas high up, and sideways
																																																																																														outstretching it with stun-sails, like the double-jointed wings of an
																																																																																														albatross; the Pequod bore down in the leeward wake of Moby-Dick. At
																																																																																														the well known, methodic intervals, the whale’s glittering spout was
																																																																																														regularly announced from the manned mast-heads; and when he would be
																																																																																														reported as just gone down, Ahab would take the time, and thenhe shall be killed, this gold is that man’s; and if on
																																																																																														that day I shall again raise him, then, ten times its sum shall be
																																																																																														divided among all of ye! Away now!—the deck is thine, sir!”

																																																																																														And so saying, he placed himself half way within the scuttle, and
																																																																																														slouching his hat, stood there till dawn, except when at intervals
																																																																																														rousing himself to see how the night wore on.


																																																																																														CHAPTER 134. The Chase—Second Day.

																																																																																														At day-break, the three mast-heads were punctually manned afresh.

																																																																																														“D’ye see him?” cried Ahab after allowing a little space for the light
																																																																																														to spread.

																																																																																														“See nothing, sir.”

																																																																																														“Turn up all hands and make sail! he travels faster than I thought
																																																																																														for;—the top-gallant sails!—aye, they should have been kept on her all
																																																																																														night. But no matter—’tis but resting for the rush.”

																																																																																														Here be it said, that this pertinacious pursuit of one particular
																																																																																														whale, continued through day into night, and through night into day, is
																																																																																														a thing by no means unprecedented in the South sea fishery. For such is
																																																																																														the wonderful skill, prescience of experience, and invincible
																																																																																														confidence acquired by some great natural geniuses among the Nantucket
																																																																																														commanders; that from the simple observation of a whale when last
																																																																																														descried, they will, under certain given circumstances, pretty
																																																																																														accurately foretell both the direction in which he will continue to
																																																																																														swim for a time, while ubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew. The frenzies
																																																																																														of the chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up, like old wine
																																																																																														worked anew. Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them might
																																																																																														have felt before; these were not only now kept out of sight through the
																																																																																														growing awe of Ahab, but they were broken up, and on all sides routed,
																																																																																														as timid prairie hares that scatter before the bounding bison. The hand
																																																																																														of Fate had snatched all their souls; and by the stirring perils of the
																																																																																														previous day; the rack of the past night’s suspense; the fixed,
																																																																																														unfearing, blind, reckless way in which their wild craft went plunging
																																																																																														towards its flying mark; by all these things, their hearts were bowled
																																																																																														along. The wind that made great bellies of their sails, and rushed the
																																																																																														vessel on by arms invisible as irresistible; this seemed the symbol of
																																																																																														that unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race.

																																																																																														They were one man, not thirty. For as the one ship that held them all;
																																																																																														though it was put together of all contrasting things—oak, and maple,
																																																																																														and pine wood; iron, and pitch, and hemp—yet all these ran into each
																																																																																														other in the one concrete hull, which shot on its way, both balanced
																																																																																														and directed opped
																																																																																														from his perch.

																																																																																														“Lower away,” he cried, so soon as he had reached his boat—a spare one,
																																																																																														rigged the afternoon previous. “Mr. Starbuck, the ship is thine—keep
																																																																																														away from the boats, but keep near them. Lower, all!”

																																																																																														As if to strike a quick terror into them, by this time being the first
																																																																																														assailant himself, Moby Dick had turned, and was now coming for the
																																																																																														three crews. Ahab’s boat was central; and cheering his men, he told
																																																																																														them he would take the whale head-and-head,—that is, pull straight up
																																																																																														to his forehead,—a not uncommon thing; for when within a certain limit,
																																																																																														such a course excludes the coming onset from the whale’s sidelong
																																																																																														vision. But ere that close limit was gained, and while yet all three
																																																																																														boats were plain as the ship’s three masts to his eye; the White Whale
																																																																																														churning himself into furious speed, almost in an instant as it were,
																																																																																														rushing among the boats with open jaws, and a lashing tail, offered
																																																																																														appalling battle on every side; and heedless of the irons darted at him
																																																																																														from every boat, seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plank
																																																																																														of which those boats were made. But skilfully manœuvred, incessantly
																																																																																														wheeling like trained chargeeling with his flukes from
																																																																																														side to side; and whenever a stray oar, bit of plank, the least chip or
																																																																																														crumb of the boats touched his skin, his tail swiftly drew back, and
																																																																																														came sideways smiting the sea. But soon, as if satisfied that his work
																																																																																														for that time was done, he pushed his pleated forehead through the
																																																																																														ocean, and trailing after him the intertangled lines, continued his
																																																																																														leeward way at a traveller’s methodic pace.

																																																																																														As before, the attentive ship having descried the whole fight, again
																																																																																														came bearing down to the rescue, and dropping a boat, picked up the
																																																																																														floating mariners, tubs, oars, and whatever else could be caught at,
																																																																																														and safely landed them on her decks. Some sprained shoulders, wrists,
																																																																																														and ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances;
																																																																																														inextricable intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all these
																																																																																														were there; but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen
																																																																																														any one. As with Fedallah the day before, so Ahab was now found grimly
																																																																																														clinging to his boat’s broken half, which afforded a comparatively easy
																																																																																														float; nor did it so exhaust him as the previous day’s mishap.

																																																																																														But when he was helped to the deck, all eyes were fastened upon him; as
																																																																																														instead of standing by himself he still half-hung upon the shoulder of
																																																																																														Starbuck, who had thus far been the foremost to assist him. His ivory
																																																																																														leg had been snapped off, leaving but one short sharp splithy very leg once more snatched from under thee; thy evil
																																																																																														shadow gone—all good angels mobbing thee with warnings:—what more
																																																																																														wouldst thou have?—Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish till he
																																																																																														swamps the last man? Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom of the
																																																																																														sea? Shall we be towed by him to the infernal world? Oh, oh,—Impiety
																																																																																														and blasphemy to hunt him more!”

																																																																																														“Starbuck, of late I’ve felt strangely moved to thee; ever since that
																																																																																														hour we both saw—thou know’st what, in one another’s eyes. But in this
																																																																																														matter of the whale, be the front of thy face to me as the palm of this
																																																																																														hand—a lipless, unfeatured blank. Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. This
																																																																																														whole act’s immutably decreed. ’Twas rehearsed by thee and me a billion
																																																																																														years before this ocean rolled. Fool! I am the Fates’ lieutenant; I act
																																																																																														under orders. Look thou, underling! that thou obeyest mine.—Stand round
																																																																																														me, men. Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shivered
																																																																																														lance; propped up on a lonely foot. ’Tis Ahab—his body’s part; but
																																																																																														Ahab’s soul’s a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs. I feel
																																																																																														strained, half stranded, as ropes that tow dismaste still this hair is growing
																																																																																														now; this moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no, it’s like
																																																																																														that sort of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the earthy
																																																																																														clefts of Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava. How the wild winds blow
																																																																																														it; they whip it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the
																																																																																														tossed ship they cling to. A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this
																																																																																														through prison corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, and
																																																																																														ventilated them, and now comes blowing hither as innocent as fleeces.
																																																																																														Out upon it!—it’s tainted. Were I the wind, I’d blow no more on such a
																																																																																														wicked, miserable world. I’d crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink
																																																																																														there. And yet, ’tis a noble and heroic thing, the wind! who ever
																																																																																														conquered it? In every fight it has the last and bitterest blow. Run
																																																																																														tilting at it, and you but run through it. Ha! a coward wind that
																																																																																														strikes stark naked men, but will not stand to receive a single blow.
																																																																																														Even Ahab is a braver thing—a nobler thing than _that_. Would now the
																																																																																														wind but had a body; but all the things that most exasperate and
																																																																																														outrage mortal man, all these things are bodiless, but only bodiless as
																																																																																														objects, not as agents. There’s a most special, a most cunning, oh, a
																																																																																														most malicious difference! And yet, I say again, and swear it now, thattincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that
